The IEBC yesterday cleared Jubilee Party flagbearer President Uhuru Kenyatta to defend his seat, setting the stage for a tough battle with his long-standing rival, NASA leader Raila Odinga.Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto were among the final five out of eight candidates to be cleared.IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati warned the candidates against inciting violence during the two-month campaigns in their race for State House.He said they are monitoring the campaigns together with other government agencies and will not hesitate to take action against any perpetrator.&ldquo;You have signed the code of conduct, go through it because it has consequences. Ensure your campaigns are peaceful,&rdquo; Chebukati told candidates.The campaigns for the August 8 general election officially began on Sunday.All cleared presidential candidates have been asked to submit their campaign schedules to the commission for harmonisation to avoid parties clashing over venues and routes.Uhuru, accompanied by First Lady Margaret Kenyatta and Jubilee MPs and governors, arrived at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre for clearance at 3.30pm after holding rallies around Nairobi.Narc Kenya leader and Kirinyaga governor aspirant Martha Karua and Labour Party leader Ababu Namwamba (Budalang&rsquo;i MP) accompanied Uhuru.&ldquo;There is a Kenya before and after the elections. We shall respect the will of Kenyans and we appeal to them to give us another opportunity. We have no intentions to obstruct or abuse opponents,&rdquo; Uhuru said after Chebukati handed over the nomination certificate. &ldquo;Our only desire is to sell policies and we ask Kenyans to give us their vote.&rdquo;Raila, Mohammed Dida (Alliance for Real Change) and Ekuru Aukot (Thirdway Alliance of Kenya) were cleared on Sunday.Independent candidate Joseph Nyagah and his running mate Moses Waswa from Bungoma were the first to be cleared yesterday.They were not cleared on Sunday because they paid Sh50,000 more for nomination fees instead of Sh200,000.&ldquo;I am delighted that finally I have a certificate from the IEBC to contest. I will ensure the campaigns are peaceful. I have been in this game for a very long time. I was in the government, my father was in the government, therefore, I am in a better position than most people to know what needs to be done,&rdquo; Nyagah said. Independent candidate Michael Wainaina and his running mate Miriam Mutua also assured the commission they will conduct peaceful campaigns. They asked Chebukati to deliver free, fair and credible elections in return. &ldquo;We stand for a new dispensation that recognises there can be no democracy if 58 per of women population is left out of participation in politics. There can never be democracy if 70 per cent of young people are left out of the political space,&rdquo; Wainaina said. UDP presidential candidate Cyrus Jirongo and his running mate Joseph Momanyi were the third to be cleared.