NEVER before in the history of elective politics in Kenya has there been such a high number of independent candidates. The outcome of the recently concluded party nominations has left over 2,000 contestants with no option but to run as independents. What is the position of these candidates in law? Why the sudden exponential increase in their number? Do they have a better chance of success compared to their counterparts with party certificates? What is the impact of the high number of independence on the electoral process? Which challenges lie ahead, should they be elected in big numbers? These are some of the questions that voters, political parties, candidates and the Independent Elections and Boundaries Commission must find answers to, and fast.Amendments to the old Constitution in the early 1990s paved way for multiparty politics. For 29 years before then, the ruling party Kanu was the only entry door to elective politics. Once locked out of the party, of which many Kenyans were life members, a politician&rsquo;s career and future were doomed. That is why Kanu was the &ldquo;Baba na Mama&rdquo; of every Kenyan politician. There was no room for independent candidates. You were either in the party, or nowhere &ndash; forever. The Jaramogi Odinga and Martin Shikuku were some of the historical causalities of this tyrannical political period.The reintroduction of multiparty politics did not guarantee the rights of independent candidates. Elections were dominated by major political parties. Parties often made forays onto their competitors&rsquo; turf, to stifle competition before or after general elections. Numbers were necessary then, as they still are in this era of Mutahi Ngunyi&rsquo;s reign by virtue of a &ldquo;tyranny of numbers&rdquo;. Pre- and post-election defections were the order of the day for the better part of the 1990s. Two elections after the exit of President Daniel Moi have been punctuated by pre-election defections, famously known as &ldquo;party hopping&rdquo;. Elective politics have been dominated by political parties. Multiparty politics under the amended former Constitution did not have any elaborate legal foundation. Those who failed to get acceptance in parties tried running as independent candidates but their efforts were cut short by legal technicalities. Harun Mwau is known to have mightily tried but failed as an independent candidate on several occasions. Incidentally, the Party of Independent Candidates of Kenya, the vehicle on which the Boss, as he is popularly known, made those attempts, is now ridiculed as the shelter home of failed independent candidates. Mwau&rsquo;s efforts often turned to be an exercise in political idleness. Is that still the case for independent candidates today?The promulgation of the current Constitution in 2010 entrenched the eligibility of independent candidates to stand for election. This entrenchment is not in the Bill of Rights, where party affiliation takes priority in elective politics. Independent candidates therefore, enter the race with several handicaps; they should not have been members of a political party three months before an election, the support of a number of voters numerically similar to that of party candidates is required of them and they are not entitled to funds under the Political Parties&rsquo; Fund. It is a lone race, in association, numbers and funds. It is not for the fainthearted, politically speaking.The bureaucracy of political parties and the IEBC has, in the recent past, undermined the participation chances of independent candidates. The Elections Act and the Political Parties Act were used to frustrate independent candidates who were previously members of political parties. Parties and the IEBC required prior notification of resignation before one could be cleared for election. One such case concerned the Mathare Constituency by-election in August 2014. Attempts to lock out William Omondi resulted in a court decision declaring the requirement for prior notice of resignation from a political party unconstitutional. Omondi ran as an independent candidate. Elaborate laws on the conduct of party primaries have not brought sanity and justice to the conduct of the exercise, which is considered to be a mini-general election. A winner of a ticket from a dominant political party stands a high chance of triumph in the final contest. There is a popular view that parties still have their owners, who determine on account of loyalty or finance, which candidate should fly its respective flags, all the way from the County Assembly to the Presidency. Primaries often end up being a make-do exercise, where candidates are shortchanged at a high cost on account of nomination fees collected, wasted time and effort. Some come out of the nominations with stolen victories, others devastated and disappointed. Most genuinely lose but are nonetheless, determined to be on the ballot paper. The submission of party members&rsquo; lists to the IEBC before nominations and the requirement that nominations be held on the basis of party members&rsquo; registers lock out contestants from seeking alternative party tickets. The election laws and timelines set by the IEBC have effectively ended the practice of &ldquo;party hopping&rdquo;. The only available window for candidates dissatisfied with party nominations is to run as independent candidates.In 2013 very few independent candidates made it past the ballot box. Their participation in County Assemblies and the National Assembly went unnoticed. For instance, no serious contribution is attributable to Cherangani&rsquo;s Wesly Korir or Kibwezi&rsquo;s Patrick Musimba. They were dwarfed and shadowed by the dominant party machines of Jubilee and Cord, which set or determined the agenda for legislation and oversight. Whether these independents get reelected will go a long way in assisting an evaluation of the future prospects of independent candidates. Until then, their counterparts with party certificates will have a head start. Political parties give the might of association, necessary in the vote hunt, election mobilization and managing the electoral process, in order that a candidate&rsquo;s votes may be accounted for. Beyond safety, there is great joy in numbers.Nominations are intended to sift and reduce the number of contestants for any elective office. A large number of independent candidates will encumber and burden the ballot paper. The IEBC will be required to spend more, financially and in human resource, to accommodate an influx of independent candidates. The tally of votes and declaration of results is likely to take longer than expected. There will also, be more election petitions, a further expense on the Judiciary. An election with the expected high number of independent candidates will be no mean task for the IEBC, which appears, from recent events surrounding the acquisition of election materials, least prepared for the forthcoming General Election.It remains to be seen how seasoned politicians like William Kabogo, Kembi Gitura, Peter Kenneth and Kinuthia Mbugua of Jubilee on the one hand and Paul Otuoma, Dalmas Otieno and Jakoyo Midiwo of NASA, on the other hand, will survive in the unfamiliar but bulging shelter home of independent candidates, seeking reelection. Their respective former political parties are likely to deploy heavy artillery against them, to prove that they lost fair and square in the nominations. The success of these politicians would be a big dent on the credibility of party nominations. It could be the beginning of the end of party politics or herald the end of big parties and the need for politicians to &ldquo;own&rdquo; their parties. All indicators point to the fact that these two eventualities will be a tall order for politicians. Party politics will continue to dominate elective politics, independent candidates being a rare exception to the general rule. Five years is sufficient time for a study on the future prospects of independent candidates. It is worth the wait. An Assembly or Senate dominated by independent candidates could be a recipe for chaos. Independent elected leaders cannot be whipped to tow a particular line when it comes to voting. They may end up casting deciding votes in favour of, or against, any legislation or oversight decisions by various arms of the Government or the Opposition. The danger of independents being compromised to vote in a particular way is real. Their influence in various Committees is an issue that may have far-reaching consequences on important decisions. Independent candidates could pose the biggest challenge ever to multiparty politics.A positive impact by independent candidates &ndash; should many of them pass the ballot box test &ndash; may improve the quality of elective politics. Political parties may realize the need to afford their members a level playing field in party affairs &ndash; and nominations in particular. There will be no need for contestants to deploy huge resources in primaries as has been witnessed lately, only to end up in tears and violent confrontations when the exercise culminates in a shambles. The heat and anxiety generated by nominations could disappear, and confidence in party politics become inspired. Elections may then be run as a normal regular leadership change process, where individuals with distinction are guaranteed election or reelection and accomplished failures replaced like diapers. Multiparty politics would have matured. There will then be an end to the independent candidates&rsquo; looming nightmare.