Five AP officers were killed when their Land Cruiser ran over an IED between Arabia and Lafey in Mandera on Wednesday. The five were part of Governor Ali Roba's convoy, which was headed from Arabia to Lafey for a campaign rally at about 1.30pm. Roba's vehicle and others in the motorcade had not reached the scene at the time of the explosion. An unknown number of people were injured, said a witness who spoke to the Star on phone from Fino. Roba has been on a campaign trail that began last week. Mandera East Deputy county commissioner Lawrence Omondi said he was aware that one of the Governor's security vehicles had been hit. But he said he had not received official communication from the scene due to due to poor network as al Shabaab militants destroyed Safaricom masts earlier in the year. Omondi said a team of police officers and KDF were dispatched to the scene.  KDF officers at the scene in Lafey where a vehicle in Mandera Governor Ali Roba's convoy, ran over an IED, May 24, 2017. /STEPHEN ASTARIKO In March 2015, gunmen attacked a convoy carrying Roba, leaving him unharmed but wounding several people close to the spot where al Shabaab launched a string of deadly attacks last year, the army said. Al Shabaab said its fighters crossed into Kenya and killed four soldiers in an attack on a military convoy that day but did not mention the Governor. In October last year, a night guard was killed in a shootout between Roba's bodyguard and suspected women terrorists. The four, clad in black buibuis, were walking on a road in Mandera town at around midnight when they met the police officer. More on this: Mandera Governor Ali Roba survives gunmen attack, Al Shabaab claims 4 soldiers killed Also read: Guard killed as Roba's bodyguard engages al Shabaab gunmen Al Shabaab has vowed revenge attacks against Kenya after it sent troops into Somalia where they are battling the al Qaeda-linked group as part of an African Union peacekeeping force. Roba once said the county has enough security personnel but they are too afraid to conduct night patrols See: [VIDEO] Mandera's 'sufficient' security too afraid to patrol, Roba says after al Shabaab raid