The Sh90 government-branded two-kilogramme packet of maize flour was finally made available in the supermarkets. However, by evening, some retail shops had sold out.The subsidised flour came as a relief to many Kenyans, who rely on ugali as their staple food. However, most outlets have limited the numbers consumers can purchase to two.The prices of essential commodities such as maize flour, sugar and milk have been soaring, with a 2kg packet of maize flour selling at Sh150. Agriculture CS Willy Bett said the majority of Kenyans will start getting the subsidised maize flour at the weekend. A spot check in Nairobi showed that by midday yesterday, most of the Tuskys outlets had stocked the subsidised maize flour with a limitation of two packets per consumer.The Cereal Millers Association was quick to explain that the lack of maize flour in some retail chains does not reflect a lack of maize flour in the country.Naivas had not received the flour, while a Nakumatt Holding limited official assured consumers that they would start buying by evening.Some retail outlets still have the old stock of maize flour. They say the subsidised maize flour means they might count millions of shillings in losses.Naivas MD David Kimani yesterday said they have 1,500 bales of the old stock, but have already started receiving the Sh90 maize flour.&ldquo;We do not know what to do with this maize flour bearing in mind that we bought it at Sh138 per 2kg packet from the suppliers. If we sell this at Sh90, we will go at a Sh50 loss per 2kg packet. This will be a huge loss,&rdquo; he said on the phone.Retail Trade Association of Kenya CEO Wambui Mbarire welcomed the availability of the flour on the shelves.&ldquo;Those that bought stocks on Monday and Tuesday at between Sh138-Sh140 will now have to sell at a loss. But we are talking to suppliers to find a solution and see what to do with the old stock,&rdquo; she said, adding that the price of sugar is also coming down.&ldquo;Last week, a 2kg packet of sugar was selling at between Sh189-Sh190. This week, it has gone down to Sh175. The price of milk has yet to go down, but should reduce because it depends on the rains.&rdquo;