Ten hopefuls are running for Nyamira senator, according to an interim list from the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. However, the battle for the seat is turning out to be a three-horse race between lawyers. Senior Counsel Okong’o O’Mogeni (ODM), Nairobi-based lawyer Nyambega Mose (Wiper) and outgoing East African Legislative Assembly member lawyer Joseph Kiangoi (Jubilee Party) are seen as the frontrunners in the race to replace Mong’are Okong’o, who announced that he will run for President. However, the outgoing senator’s name was published by the IEBC among those seeking the Nyamira governor post. O’Mogeni and Mose are constitutional lawyers, while Kiangoi specialises in conveyancing. O’Mogeni, a former LSK chairman who finished second in the 2013 elections, and Mose will be making their second attempt at the seat, while Kiangoi, a former North Mugirango MP is seeking the seat for the first time. Post needs a constitutional lawyer “The Senate seat requires a constitutional lawyer who understands devolution. The battle is between my senior colleague O’Mogeni and I. However, the ultimate decision will be made by the people of Nyamira,” Mose said. Only one woman, Nyarinda Moikobu (MCC), is in the race. Other hopefuls are veteran politician Abuya Abuya (KSC), Samuel Mounde (ANC), Douglas Maraga (CCM), Edward Oendo (NLP), Tom Nyayiemi (RBK) and Timothy Rioba (Independent). Mounde and Rioba are making their debuts in politics. Rioba defected from JP after the party gave Kiangoi a direct ticket. Political party affiliation and clannism are likely to play a key role in determining who becomes senator. Kiangoi and O’Mogeni are from the Abagirango clan, while Mose comes from the Abagetutu clan. In neighbouring Kisii, youthful aspirants Kennedy Momanyi (Labour Party), popularly known as Kenmo, and Ooga Rasugu (NLP) will face a herculean task in the senator race against veterans former Cabinet minister Sam Ongeri (ODM), former CIC chairman Charles Nyachae (JP) and former South Mugirango MP Omingo Magara (PDP). Vote for youthful leaders “The youth should rise up against the status quo. If we don’t, we will have ourselves to blame in future. Some of the aspirants don’t understand the role of a senator,” Momanyi said. He is an economist at the Kisii county government. Rasugu, a Nyamira-based businessman, said, “Ongeri, Magara and Nyachae should give way for the youth. We are up to the task. Kisiis are tired of recycling politicians.” On Wednesday last week, former nominated MP George Nyamweya announced his decision to quit the race during a rally at Gusii Stadium. Others in the contest are Richard Atemba (KNC), Vincent Gekone (PEP), Benayo Nyamweya (UDP), Ben Nyamweya (Wiper) and Mishael Okemwa (Ford). Kisii Senator Chris Obure is running for governor on the JP ticket.