Joe Nyaga officially launched his presidential bid on Wednesday with a promise to give women at least 50 per cent of all senior government positions. Nyaga's other pledges included ensuring the implementation of the two thirds gender rule, consulting on all key matters and fighting corruption. Parliament failed to pass the law on two occasions last year. On March 29, MPs were given 60 days to do so or risk dissolution. On April 22, women MPs said they would pass the Bill and lobbied their male counterparts to turn up and vote in their favour. Read: Uhuru urges MPs to vote for two-thirds gender rule Nyaga further said he will be a leader who consults before making key decisions, not one who makes them alone. "I will be a commander-in-chief who is in charge and does not leave others to make decisions while watching. Yes, I shall consult and take advice," he said at the launch in Nairobi. The politician added that as Kenya’s first independent president, he will build partnerships across party lines without discrimination. "I am not going to run a coalition government or a government with two heads as it is not allowed in the constitution," he said. "I will run the first two inclusive governments...I pledge to form a government [that represents the face of Kenya]." Noting his actions are guided by principles and values, Nyaga said he wants to lead the fight against corruption. Kenya was ranked one of the most corrupt countries in Africa and on the globe. The country attained a below average score in the Index in 2016, showing no improvement from 2014 rankings. Transparency International's corruption index placed the country 145th out of 176 countries with a score of 26. President Uhuru Kenyatta once scolded government officials over rampant corruption saying the situation was frustrating. [VIDEO] Frustrated Uhuru scolds state officials on rampant corruption But Nyaga said: "I want to restore trust in Kenya's leadership because I am sick and tired of hearing about corruption everywhere. It has crippled the government." He added that the theft of public resources was largely why the government could not pay doctors and teachers. "The strikes disrupted learning and led to deaths in hospitals. The factor that have prevented the country from solving this is simply the failure of leadership," he said. Read: Oluga explains 'unfortunate' 65-day doctors' strike to Senate Nyaga said Kenyans have allowed themselves to be derailed by "narrow minded politics" and allow leaders to serve their own interests. "With your support and goodwill we can bring to an end to looting because I want to lead the fight against corruption. I will not shy away," he said, noting he will make Kenya  stand tall again. "I will lead our country to reclaiming its glory. Kenya should be able to stand tall again." The politician further noted Kenyans are equal and should be given equal opportunities to participate and serve the nation. "Tafadhali kujeni tuingie kwenye bus mpya ya Independent. NASA ni rafiki zangu na Jubilee ni rafiki zangu pia (Please, let us get into the new bus of independents. NASA and Jubilee leaders are my friends)," he added. Eighteen Kenyans will battle it out for the Presidency in August, if cleared by IEBC, after getting the nod from the Registrar of Political Parties. Of the 18, seven will vie under different party umbrellas while the rest will seek election as independent candidates. They candidates include Uhuru Kenyatta (Jubilee Party), Raila Odinga (ODM), Cyrus Jirongo (UDP Party), Nazlin Omar (independent), David Munga, Stephen Oganga, Robert Juma, Joseph Ngacha, Japheth Kavinga, Nixon Kukubah, Joseph Musyoka and Erastus Nyamera. Others are Professor Michael Wainaina - PhD, Peter Ondeng (Restore and Build Kenya Party), Abduba Dida (Tunza Coalition), Kennedy Mongare (Federal Party of Kenya) and Ekuru Aukot (Thirdway Alliance Party). Compared to 2013, this election will be hotly contested as only 350 aspirants sought clearance to run for seats as independent candidates. Read: Headache for Uhuru, Raila as 4,000 opt to vie independently