President Uhuru Kenyatta is taking Kenyans for a ride by claiming he is looking for a solution to address the high prices of basic commodities, Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi has said.He said the President&rsquo;s move is aimed at hoodwinking Kenyans to reelect him in August.Kingi (pictured) said Kilifi residents have been forced to abandon their staple food and turn to rice and chapati, which are mostly consumed during Christmas festivities.He spoke in Ndugumnani, Sokoke ward, on Tuesday.Kingi said the Jubilee administration has caused many problems in the country. &ldquo;This government has brought a lot of suffering to her own people. We are used to eating chapati and rice during Christmas, but we are now eating chapati every day, because wheat flour is cheaper than maize flour. A litre of milk is being sold at a higher price compared to a litre of petrol,&rdquo; Kingi said.He said reelecting the Jubilee administration means giving them another chance to increase the prices of basic food commodities even more.&ldquo;When the Jubilee government took power, prices of basic commodities started to skyrocket. He did nothing to cushion Kenyans from the high prices. The second and third year were the same. We are now 90 days to the General Election and that&rsquo;s when the President is realising food prices are high. We will not accept his public relations gimmick and let him do all he can to reduce the prices and even if he does not do that, on August 8, we will send him home and NASA will come to the aid of Kenyans,&rdquo; Kingi said.Bamba area and its environs have been hit by an acute shortage of maize flour. Whenever the flour is available a 2kg packet of unga retails at Sh250Most shops at Bamba trading centre lack the basic commodity and shopkeepers blame the poor state of the roads for the scarcity of flour.&ldquo;We mostly depend on the Bamba-Mariakani road, but it is now impassable,&rdquo; shopkeeper Josephat Koi said.Resident Charo Mangi said the situation is worse in most remote areas in the town. &ldquo;In Bamba town, maize flour is sold at Sh250, but outside the town it is more costly. We are anticipating tough times ahead because looking for maize flour is a nightmare here,&rdquo; he said.