Two more people died yesterday, bringing to three-day death toll to nine due to heavy rains in Mombasa.Governor Hassan Joho blamed bad construction and unprecedented rains. His rivals blamed the county.A perimeter wall of Hakika Transporters in Mikindani collapsed on a house, killing a man and his daughter.Changamwe police boss Peter Omanwa said the mother is admitted at Coast Provincial General Hospital.A man&rsquo;s body was found floating under Nyali Bridge on Monday morning. Police said the man might have slipped and fallen in the ocean next to Mburukenge slum.On Monday afternoon, six family members died after the Pandya Memorial Hospital perimeter wall collapsed on their house in Kizingo.Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho yesterday said the county has set up rescue centres in all social halls.&ldquo;We have started a feeding and healthcare programme to help the families,&rdquo; he said.Joho said the county does not have enough funds, but will utilise the cash available to manage the situation.On Monday, county secretary Francis Thoya urged residents of slums, including Kalahari, Mburukenge, Bangladesh and Alidina, to vacate.&ldquo;We have been informed there could be landslides in these areas,&rdquo; he said. He said the county will pay funeral expenses.Joho also said the county will look into the possibility of compensating these families. He said the county will demolish unsafe walls undermined in the rains. The walls are at Pandya Memorial Hospital, Hakika Transporters, the National Youth Service compounds in Miritini and Ratna, Kongowea.&ldquo;With continuing rains, we cannot wait for further loss. If it takes demolishing walls, that will be done,&rdquo; Joho said after visiting Kizingo.He blamed haphazard building construction for the disasters.Joho said the National Land Commission failed to revoke title deeds of more than 500 parcels of land the county listed as having been grabbed.But governor hopeful Suleiman Shahbal and running mate Anania Mwaboza blamed the deaths on the county&rsquo;s poor drainage system.&ldquo;Did the sunny season make the government forget the poor drainage systems?&rdquo; Shahbal asked. Mwaboza told the Star said on the phone, &ldquo;Let no man shift blame. County management lies squarely with the governor.&rdquo;But Joho said, &ldquo;This was not done during our time. This is 20-year-old or so construction that obstructed the natural flow of rain water.&rdquo; He called the rains unprecedented.