Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga’s bid for governor on Monday received a boost after ODM deputy party leader Hassan Joho, businessman William Oduol and Siaya Senator James Orengo endorsed him for a second term. Joho, who had accompanied Orengo to present his nomination papers in Siaya and later led a rally in Siaya town, asked residents to vote for Rasanga. Rasanga was declared the winner during the hotly contested ODM nominations. Rasanga will face Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo, who is vying as an independent candidate. Joho told Siaya residents ODM leader Raila Odinga will be proud to see voters in his backyard lead the way in accepting the six-piece voting pattern and win all the positions. “In Mombasa where I come from, there is no room for Jubilee or independent candidates. It’s all orange. I also expect you Siaya residents to paint your county orange come August 8,” he said. Orengo urged residents not to give Rasanga a hard time during the campaign period because he is ODM’s representative in Siaya. He promised to support all ODM nominees in the county and urged voters to remain focussed and not to fall for independents’ tricks. “By remaining focussed, we will deliver Raila’s votes and other ODM candidates’ votes with less hustle,” Orengo said. Oduol, who lost during the ODM nominations for Siaya governor, also asked residents to vote for all ODM candidates. Oduol was Rasanga’s fierce competitor in 2013 and jumped ship to NAP-K after losing during the nominations. He said this time round, he is in ODM to stay and he will support all nominees. “I will not run as an independent candidate. I will stay in ODM as I strategise to make a comeback in 2022 as the governor aspirant,” Oduol said. He made his first public appearance after losing. Oduol caused a stir when he shared the podium with Rasanga. Rasanga welcomed Oduol and promised to support his bid in 2022. He promised to unite leaders and campaign for Raila. Early this month, Gumbo said Rasanga should brace himself for a titanic battle. He said he is armed to the teeth to “reclaim my stolen victory in the ODM primaries”. Gumbo said despite, “Rasanga coming a distant second, he was given the ticket”. “We cannot afford to leave it to Rasanga. He must pay the price,” he said. Gumbo said he is confident he will trounce the incumbent at the August 8 General Election. He claims he garnered 127,000 votes against Rasanga’s 70,000. However, the official results announced by Siaya county returning officer Joshua Anyona indicated Rasanga had 143,460 votes and Gumbo 87,460. Oduol garnered 9,535 votes and Carey Orege was last with 1,908. Gumbo, who is also National Assembly PAC chairman, accused Rasanga of ballot stuffing and intimidating his agents, especially in Alego-Usonga constituency.