Communities practising Female Genital Mutilation have come up with new ways of ensuring the girls undergo the cut secretly.Medicalisation of FGM tops the list of these new trends mostly carried out by the Kisii and Somali communities.NGOs working to reduce FGM cases say medicalisation is mostly conducted by medical practitioners from those two communities either in their private clinics or at the victims&rsquo;home.Communities that have adopted this practice believe it reduces harm on the girl since they use local anaesthesia. They also say those against the practice condemn it because it was done in an unhygienic environment, however, the hospital is clean and the girl will not get any infection.Equality Now Harmful Practices manager Mary Wandia said this is an absurd argument.A joint report by the UNFPA and Unicef in 2010 showed medical practitioners in Kenya, Ethiopia, Somalia, Guinea, Sudan and Egypt support the medicalisation method. The other four trends include infant cutting, where communities cut the girls at a younger age when they cannot report the matter or ask for help. They also include vacation cutting, where communities living abroad travel with their children back to Kenya during the holidays and are forcibly cut.Camouflaging has also been listed as a new trend. During male circumcision, the communities also circumcise the girls. In the cross-border FGM method, young girls, especially those living on the Kenya&ndash;Tanzania border, are taken to Tanzania for the cut. After they heal they come back home to Kenya.The Maasai community is known for this since they live next to the border. Wandia said, &ldquo;They cross to Tanzania because we have tough law enforcement officers, compared to those in Tanzania.&rdquo;FGM has no health benefits to the girl. It puts the girls at risk of causing damage to adjacent organs, recurring urinary tract infections, birth complications, painful sex, increased risk of HIV infection and in some cases, death. Wandia urged stakeholders to study the implementation of the anti-FGM law to see how best girls can be protected.The prohibition against Female Genital Mutilation law in Kenya stipulates that anyone found contravening the law is liable for a three-year jail term or a fine of Sh200,000, or both. The Kenya Demographic Health Survey says one in every five girls and women aged between 15-49 years have undergone FGM, but the rate is much higher in communities that view it as a rite of passage.