Though Africa has consolidated wide-ranging political reforms over recent decades, frequent election-related crises demonstrate the constant struggles that characterise the journey towards the realisation of democratic ideals. In just 76 days Kenya will hold its general election. Based on past episodes, electoral moments tend to be tremendously emotive and uncertain.Indeed, previous electoral misadventures have produced profound consequences in our nation. The controversial outcome of the December 27, 2007, General Election, which left at least 1,200 people dead and 600,000 displaced, tragically bears the truth that public confidence in an electoral system is of utmost rank in any modern democratic society. The clamour for a fair, transparent and credible electoral process continues to intensify. Regrettably, public confidence in vital public institutions continues to wane.Information communication technology has been cited as a potent tool towards restoring the credibility, reliability and integrity of institutions. Arguably, effective integration of ICT is critical towards ensuring the success of the August 8 election.Whereas traditional media have consistently played significant roles in elections and democracy, technology has radically transformed the information arena. The ability to communicate to the masses in real time, to seamlessly connect citizens to each other, has many implications for democracy and elections, in particular.To transcend the deficiencies of the past, the Constitution under Article 86 vouches for an election system that is simple, accurate, verifiable, secure, accountable and transparent. ICT possesses requisite capabilities that can be exploited to mitigate electoral fraud, document irregularities and hold election officials accountable.As far as laying down the legislative framework for use of ICT in elections is concerned, Parliament has been steadfast. Prominent efforts in this dimension include the amendments to the Elections Act and the approval of the Elections (Technology) Regulations.Properly effected these legal provisions could significantly serve to eliminate the systemic or institutional loopholes that harbour historical electoral malpractices. This could inspire public confidence and stem the possibility of widespread discontent, which ordinarily triggers an agitation for mass action and street warfare.The starting point in eliminating uncertainties and risks around the electoral technology in use is the disclosure that no system is entirely immune to operational complexities. Even the best system can be beset by functional problems. Nevertheless, even in problematic situations, meticulous planning has made it possible to deploy technology in a flawless manner.Electoral breakthrough lies not in the technology tools applied but in the cumulative impact of mechanisms engaged to appropriately blend all the elements within the electoral chain. Of concern is whether the IEBC has conducted an exhaustive requirement analysis to determine the specific technology needs that would ensure the integrity of the election process. It is incumbent upon the IEBC to clear aspersions that have been cast with regard to how it executed the electoral technology procurement process.Securing a service level agreement that guarantees utmost reliability is an imperative. Precise benchmarks for a comprehensive testing of election technology must be established. Quality assurance checks to affirm system stability, security, data integrity, accuracy and completeness of records are inevitable if the system is to duly meet its objectives. In view of the complexity of the electoral exercise and the time constraints, there is need for a sound operations continuity plan that details the fallback procedures should the system malfunction or some of its components fail to work as intended.Besides, the IEBC will need to sensitise the public about the electoral technology in use and implement comprehensive capacity building for election personnel. In this manner, user-related challenges that would diminish the benefits of the technology will be eliminatedFinally, inordinate delays in results transmission fairly contribute to political tension and inflame passions, with disastrous consequences. To avert this, it will be necessary to make advance arrangements with telecommunications service providers to guarantee full-scale availability of network signal throughout the election period.Kamotho Njenga is a policy and strategy analyst