Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and his nemesis Coast regional coordinator Nelson Marwa on Saturday separately claimed there is a scheme to sabotage the county economy.Joho accused the Jubilee administration of hatching up the scheme, citing the proposed Naivasha dry port.Marwa said the recent massive traffic snarl-ups on the Mombasa-Nairobi highway was artificially created to ruin the image of the Jubilee administration. He asked the concerned authorities, including the Kenya National Highways Authority, the Kenya Urban Roads Authority, the Mombasa County Inspectorate and the traffic police, to solve the problem.Mombasa has experienced massive traffic jams from Kibarani, along the Makupa Causeway, to Mariakani for the last two weeks.The jams last about six hours, inconveniencing motorists and traders. &ldquo;It amounts to an economic sabotage,&rdquo; Marwa said.He spoke while flagging off a peace caravan in Bamburi Mwisho on Saturday morning.&ldquo;This time of Ramadhan, we want to see efficient traffic flow in the entire city of Mombasa. And we are demanding this as Kenyans. We are not begging for it,&rdquo; Marwa said.At the Mombasa Women Hall, Joho, who was meeting members of the Kamba community, said the proposed Naivasha dry port, selling of the Waitiki land to squatters living on it and issuing of &ldquo;fake&rdquo; title deeds by the Jubilee administration, all amount to economic sabotage of Mombasa.&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t take us for fools my friend. We are not stupid. Most people in Mombasa earn their livelihoods in one way or the other through the Port of Mombasa. Why are you transferring port services from Mombasa to Naivasha?&rdquo; Joho asked, without naming names.He said the Mombasa port has uplifted the economy of the Coast corridor and the neighbouring regions.&ldquo;From Changamwe to Mariakani, Mtito Andei, Sultan Hamud and Athi River, the economy has risen due to the movement of goods from the Mombasa port to other areas,&rdquo; Joho said.The Mombasa port employs 7,000 people directly and more than 14,000 indirectly.The governor and the ODM deputy party leader said Jubilee candidates in Mombasa are selfish and do not have the interests of residents at heart, because they support the creation of the Naivasha dry port. &ldquo;It is unfortunate they also say there is no problem if the services are transferred. How? You are only after your own selfish interests,&rdquo; Joho said.