Meru Governor Peter Munya has said he is not in NASA as claimed by his rivals.He said Meru Senator Kiraitu Murungi and Igembe South MP Mithika Linturi are spreading propaganda to spoil his name.He spoke on Wednesday at Marania Forest station, Buuri constituency, during the signing of a management agreement between the Kenya Forest Service and Community Forest Association.His party, PNU, was the first to endorse President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s reelection last October after holding national delegates conference.&ldquo;I want to tell Kiraitu I have not appointed him to speak on my behalf. Let him speak about his agendas when he attends functions. He is not my spokesman, so he should not talk about who I am supporting for President in 2017. And I am here to state that my decision to support President Uhuru Kenyatta has not changed,&rdquo; Munya said.He said PNU will hold another meeting on May 20, to disapprove his critics. &ldquo;Our rivals in Kikali [acronym for Kiraitu Mithika and Kajuju] have now resorted to cheap local gossip. We are telling them to stop this and seek votes by telling residents what they will do instead of making me the agenda of their meetings,&rdquo; Munya said.He said Kiraitu&rsquo;s and Linturi&rsquo;s game plan is about Deputy President William Ruto&rsquo;s 2022 presidential ambitions and not 2017 general election.&ldquo;They should stop pretending that they are the ones that are close to Uhuru that we have to consult them before speaking to the President,&rdquo; Munya said.On Sunday, Murungi said Munya supports NASA activities in Meru, and had sponsored NASA meetings in the county.&ldquo;We know Munya is in NASA. He and ward administrators organised the [NASA] meeting at Maili Tatu. They even financed the meeting and mobilised residents to attend the event,&rdquo; Murungi said.Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and ODM&rsquo;s Raila Odinga attended the rally at Laare Stadium, Igembe North, Meru county, during a NASA tour on February 27. They received a warm reception.Murungi said Munya wanted to show Uhuru that Raila and NASA have penetrated Meru and the coalition has gained support. &ldquo;We know his political gimmick and we are telling him that Meru is solidly behind Jubilee,&rdquo; Murungi said.His sentiments were echoed by Linturi. The MP said Munya should stop pretending he is backing President Uhuru&rsquo;s reelection.