On April 27 every year, the Dutch community around the globe celebrates King&rsquo;s Day. This year, we commemorated the 50th birthday of King Willem-Alexander of the Netherlands. King&rsquo;s Day is a special occasion to the Dutch because it brings our nation together in celebrations marked by a flurry of activities such as; flea markets, concerts and music festivals and the eating of Dutch traditional foods like raw herring. On this day, many people dress up in orange, our national colour that denotes the Royal Family of the House of Orange-Nassau. I hosted the local Dutch community &mdash; the second largest in Africa &mdash; and guests from government, non-governmental organisations and the private sector at my official residence for the King&rsquo;s Day fete. During the event, I reiterated that the Netherlands is shifting its focus in Kenya from aid to trade &mdash; a culmination of maturity in our decades-long bilateral relationship. The aid-to-trade relation between the two nations is a partnership meant to stimulate private sector development, promote innovative financing, market and value chain development, technology transfer and creation of a favourable trade and investment climate.The Netherlands and Kenya have enjoyed cordial relationship manifested through support for programmes in key sectors of the economy such as; water, agriculture and food security. The shift from aid to trade policy by the Dutch government in its relationship with Kenya calls for a paradigm shift in engagement meant to spur sustainable economic growth and development through trade.A major highlight of the new diplomatic discourse is the emphasis on increased private sector engagement as demonstrated, for instance, by the recent visit to Kenya by a business delegation made up of investors from the Dutch health sector. The investors were scouting for investment opportunities in the health sector, and to assist in the creation of smart solutions that will revolutionise access to healthcare services in Kenya. Equally, business delegations from various sectors of the Kenyan economy will be visiting the Netherlands in future to meet their counterparts for trade and investment deals. It is expected that in strengthening private sector engagement, business delegations will scout for more trade and investment opportunities in both directions. Currently, over 125 companies and 300 members are associated with the Netherlands Business Hub and Netherlands Business Network in Kenya respectively.Besides fostering Business-to-Business forums, the Dutch government will offer support to Kenya in making the business environment more attractive to increased trade and foreign direct investment. The new-found relationship will be more of a partnership and that&rsquo;s why you will observe that the level of Dutch bilateral aid to Kenya valued at Sh2.8 billion in 2013 has been decreasing gradually to Sh1.6 billion in 2016 in readiness to usher in the new era in the Dutch-Kenyan relations. This bilateral engagement underscores the importance of trade (rather than aid) as the engine of growth.Kenya is a preferred destination for Dutch investments because of her strategic geographical location that acts as a gateway to East, Central and Southern Africa. Above all, the modern infrastructure, skilled labour, social amenities, economic and constitutional reforms, and a robust ICT sector make Kenya attractive for Dutch investors, which makes our aid-to-trade policy an appropriate next step. This shift in bilateral relations mirrors the aspirations of our people in achieving the development goals set out in the social, economic and political pillars of Kenya&rsquo;s Vision 2030.