Juveniles serving sentences across the country got a reprieve yesterday after the High Court declared the indefinite imprisonment of minors unconstitutional. Justice John Mativo, in the landmark decision, said holding minors indefinitely while waiting presidential amnesty because they were below 18 years when they committed offences, is unlawful . The judge ruled, “I find that Section 25 ( 2 ) of the Constitution is inconsistent with the provisions of Article 53 ( 1 ) (f) of the Constitution which provides that a child has the right not to be detained, except as a measure of last resort, and to be held at the shortest appropriate period separate from adults and in conditions that take account of the child’s sex and age.” He was ruling in a case filed by six prisoners who were convicted and sentenced to be detained when they were aged between 12 and 17 years. Joseph Karatu Mugo, who has been in prison for nine years, Benson Njihia and Stephen Irungu Mungai ( 14 years), Nzioka Kitili Mwongoi ( 15 years), Jackson Nyakundi ( 22 years) and Thomas Owino Odeny ( 23 years) had challenge their detention saying their rights as children had been violated. Agreeing with the six, Mativo was of the view children’s detention at the President’s pleasure is unlawful and violates the doctrine of separation of powers among the three arms of government. “This court is powerless to grant relief where the interest of justice demand. Having found the challenged provisions are unconstitutional it would be in the interest of justice for this court to order their release,” the judge said. Further, the judge held that convicted minors cannot be punished by death or detained indefinitely in prison at the mercy of the President. “Juvenile offenders should be separated from adult prisoners and their detention in borstal institutions should be a last resort and for the shortest period possible,” he said. In addition, the judge said sentence of imprisonment at the President’s pleasure is abdicating judicial discretion which can also be taken as a life imprisonment. “To sentence a person to what may potentially constitute life imprisonment infringes on the rights of such a person not to be subjected to cruel, inhuman or degrading punishment,” he said.