The manner in which we followed the Nairobi primaries, reminds me of a time when we were young and foolish, and our dates were a five-point plan: (i) wait for a call at a specific time outside a public phone booth; (ii) meet outside Nairobi or 20th Century cinema theatres at the appointed time; (iii) see the movie; (iv) crown it with coffee and (v) ride a matatu back home. Now that I think of it, as girls we never had a way of knowing if the boy got home safe. We just assumed he would.If it was a horror movie, we would cover our faces with one hand and peek through our trembling fingers, while the other held on very tightly to our date. Despite the terror we felt, we were riveted to the big screen for fear of missing any moment of what was happening.This is the state that Nairobi has been in: On edge. Will Senator Mike Sonko win the governor primaries or not? We all wanted to know and not know at the same time. And not because it was hotly contested. No. The numbers are in and they have proven that. It was simply because many could not imagine this man, Sonko, being the next governor of the capital city, yet, at the same time, they could not dismiss the attraction he commands: An attraction that the last election translated into over 800,000 votes. This man has undoubtedly proven to be a maverick.His political rise has attracted several derogatory terms; a thug, an illiterate, one without any managerial skills, among others. Many have also questioned his source of wealth. However, this is not my thesis today.So, what is it about Sonko&rsquo;s economics that we have not yet understood? What is the X factor in his political ascent? What is it that the market and Sonko have discovered that has eluded the elitist politician, voter and political analyst?Sonko may not be an Austrian Economics scholar. But he, like many Libertarians, clearly understands the principles of Praxeology. This is the science of human action.No man is ever in a satisfactory state. And that is okay. Because we are constantly creating new &lsquo;normals.&rsquo; This is why we are all purpose-oriented in our actions. And our actions are prompted by this uneasiness to substitute a more satisfactory state of affairs for a less satisfactory state.However, the reality is that scarcity is a factor of life. So we are forced to make conscious choices on which ends we will pursue now, and which ones we will pursue later (R.Murphy).To make these choices, we all subconsciously apply ordinal utility. This theory presupposes two things: One, that human beings are rational beings seeking satisfaction; and two, that utility can be compared but not measured. This is why we rank which ends we will derive most satisfaction from against our scarce resources.The market and Sonko know this all too well. They also appreciate that policy always follows practice. Hence Sonkonomics is about pedestrian politics. It is what his voter needs today. Praxeology demands that the most immediate need be attended to first given the scarce resources.That is how the kadogo economy emerged. This is the repackaging of products into smaller quantities that are affordable to the lower-income earners. Manufacturers have now made it a policy to repackage their goods into smaller quantities. So promising is this model that the International Finance Corporation supported an equity investment of $2 million in a gas company called &ldquo;Pima&rdquo; that retails partial refills of cooking gas at affordable rates for low-income earners. Although, from an economics perspective, purchasing commodities in smaller quantities is more expensive in the long run, it is only pragmatic for what the lower-income earners desire today.Many institutions, including non-state actors, churches and corporates, organise medical camps and offer free healthcare services to communities. Some call this their corporate social responsibility, others baptise it compassion and social justice, while others use it as optics for their fund raising strategy. And we find no fault in this. In fact, we are all too happy to participate as volunteers or to spread the word far and wide to ensure many people benefit. The burial of our loved ones is a collective responsibility. Harambee. We find nothing untoward in this. In fact, should one not contribute, we vilify them. But when Sonko offers to transport the bodies of his would-be voters home without charge, we find fault in his philanthropy.So why do we apply double standards when Sonko employs the same strategies? Why do we claim his actions are unsustainable? I can bet that most of those terming it unsustainable earn their income from foreign-funded NGOs. Are these any more sustainable? You be the judge. It is inspiring to hear of promising long-term plans to decongest traffic, collect garbage, light up the city, and get rid of cartels. This is very progressive thinking. And we should encourage and support it. But unfortunately, it does not resonate with about 22 per cent of Nairobians, who live below $1.25 per day (Society for International Development, 2013 ). These plans sound like fairy tales to them. They rank very low in their ordinal utility disposition.And Sonkonomics leverages this. His unorthodox practical &lsquo;manifesto&rsquo; aims for the heart, not the head. It appeals to emotional not rational voter persuasion. He has understood that the reason political candidates are appealing has very little to do with their ideas. He has attested that political campaigns are won and lost at a more emotional and subtle level.Smart politics is about winning votes, not an argument. And Sonkonomics is clearly smart politics.And who is to tell that once in office, his policies will follow practice? &lsquo;A politician is a fellow who will lay down your life for his country&rsquo; &ndash; Texas Guinan