The Energy Regulatory Commission says the planned involvement of a special unit of the Kenya Police in the ongoing crackdown on illegal cooking gas dealers will not slow down growth in its uptake. &ldquo;This will ensure a fair playing field by all licensed companies which will boost investor confidence in the Kenyan market resulting in greater investments in the LPG sector,&rdquo; ERC acting director general Robert Oimeke said in an emailed statement to the Star. Oimeke said that increased investor sentiment in the LPG sector would boost penetration. Petroleum PS Andrew Kamau said on April 25 the Energy ministry had championed a special police unit to help combat rogue Liquefied Petroleum Gas dealers. Cheaper LPG from Zambia has reportedly been finding its way into the country through Tanzania, with most of it ending in illegal refueling plants. The port of Mombasa is the main entry point. There have however been fears that the banning of LPG imports through the Kenya-Tanzania border may cause a shortage leading to an upsurge in cooking gas prices. The LPG market has become lucrative for investment in the past two years, driven by rising demand for the fuel. Kenya National Bureau of Statistics data shows that consumption of LPG for the year 2016 rose to 180,830 metric tonnes, almost three times more than 62,650 metric tonnes recorded in 2015. &ldquo;Some of the actions require policy directives while others are regulatory based. Once Policy is given by the Ministry of Energy and Petroleum, ERC has a duty of ensuring that the Policy is immediately adhered to by all the licensees,&rdquo; Oimeke said. Oil marketing companies have also been warned for failing to comply with the law and risk fines of between Sh30,000 and Sh40,000. Once the new bill penalties are expected to range between Sh3 million and Sh4 million with jail a term. The regulator has forged a strong partnership with counties to ensure distributors meet minimum requirements. &ldquo;The first county to embrace this collaboration was Kisumu County in December 2016,&rdquo; Oimeke said.