Kenya&rsquo;s worst kept secret is now officially out! At a mammoth rally held in Uhuru Park ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi declared &ldquo;Raila Tosha!&rdquo; He twice said he personally had the ball but chose to pass it to a team player at a vantage point to score. The announcement, however, created a major political anti-climax. Could NASA have ironically &ldquo;snatched defeat from the jaws of victory?&rdquo;Why did they hold the country to ransom for so long only to arrive at a commonly anticipated result? Why did they decide to send out almost the same army that was vanquished by Jubilee in 2013? Or is the game plan to force a second presidential electoral round?Many believe the Raila-Kalonzo ticket was the inevitable result of a long-standing deadlock. Naturally all three original NASA luminaries were gunning for the top job. One of the four has always been on the sidelines. However, only one slot was available for President and the other for Deputy President. After a lot of horse-trading, backstabbing, brinkmanship, bargaining and chest-thumping the intransigence and sheer mojo of Raila supported by Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula and a neutral Isaac Rutto carried the day.Kalonzo Musyoka and Mudavadi, with the benefit of relative youth, opted to take a back seat and fight another day. It was a tactical retreat, as flagbearer Raila is supposedly a transitional one-term candidate. This gives Kalonzo one shot in 2022. Musalia Mudavadi, the youngest of the three, stands to reap big thereafter. By declaring Raila Tosha he probably hopes to cleanse or sanitise himself nationally and particularly in the Luo nation. He may, therefore, be poised to inherit the populous Luhya and Luo vote post-Raila.The combined card forms the biggest bargaining chip ever in this country. The timing of their announcement is, however, close to disastrous. It comes at a time when the NASA barons &mdash; Raila and Kalonzo &mdash; are facing a serious backlash in their own backyards on account of bungled nominations.They will now have to deal with alpha politician William Ruto before they can make a dent in the Jubilee armour.Ruto is perhaps the most effective political operator in Kenya. A proactive and meticulous political strategist, he leaves nothing to chance. A day after the initial shambolic nationwide Jubilee primaries, Ruto took over operations at Jubilee headquarters at Pangani. Within hours, one man had brought order and turned the Jubilee behemoth into a workable machine. The man displayed unequalled management capabilities and strategies.He must be watching recent developments in the NASA camp with a hawk&rsquo;s eye. The shambolic elections in most NASA areas have given him the rare opportunity of intervening in his own time. NASA has displayed its soft underbelly and Ruto is not a man to miss going for their jugular.A lightning foray in Wiper and ODM zones currently could yield rich dividends. A serious internal rebellion is brewing in the Kamba nation, if the recent statements of former Wiper chairman David Musila and party&rsquo;s chief-negotiator and minority leader in the National Assembly Francis Nyenze are anything to go by. The DP has networks and tentacles in every nook and cranny of the borders of this country and can infiltrate and destabilise, thereby, effectively causing irreparable damage.Evidence of Ruto&rsquo;s political prowess is now in the public domain for all and sundry. He has subtly brought about a revolution in Central Kenya that had been silently considering abrogating an MoU between him and President Uhuru Kenyatta. Political kingpins in Kiambu, Murang&rsquo;a, Nyeri and outlying areas of Kirinyaga, Embu, Meru, Nyandarua and Laikipia have fallen like ninepins. Men and women loyal to Ruto have replaced them.His political genetic imprint has been felt in almost every constituency in Kenya. A political whirlwind has left many gasping in its wake.