Hundreds of losers in the primaries seeking to run as independent candidates have alleged favouritism at the Registrar of Political Parties headquarters in Nairobi.Speaking to the Star yesterday, some aspirants raised concerns about the slow progress by the office in the clearance procedures. The candidates, who are in a rush to beat today&rsquo;s deadline, said some aspirants have been cleared before those who had filled their forms much earlier. They are complaining over the long wait before being served.&ldquo;We have been camping here for days and we hope to get the clearance certificate so that we can proceed with the next steps. But it is quite frustrating when we see some candidates just coming from nowhere and are cleared instantly and go with their certificates,&rdquo; Collins Wafula, an MCA aspirant from Trans-Nzoia county said.The number of the aspirants seeking clearance has risen to 1,500 from the previous 1,200 recorded last week.The candidates are required by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to obtain clearance from the Office of the Registrar of Political Parties to be allowed to run in August. According to their rules, an independent candidate should not to be a member of any party at least three months to the General Election. &ldquo;Some of us came from very far and we do not have accommodation. I slept here and have woken up to continue with the process of being cleared. But it&rsquo;s all in vain. We are really wondering why the process is taking too long,&rdquo; Wafula said.However, an official from the registrar&rsquo;s office dismissed the claims of favouritism.&ldquo;The claims are lame and do not hold any water. Each candidate going to the registrar&rsquo;s office is moving a step after the other until they are done with the clearance. But if they don&rsquo;t follow this then those who follow will be cleared before others,&rdquo; the official told the Star.Among those who have declared to run as independent candidates is Murang&rsquo;a Senator Kembi Gitura, who ditched Jubilee Party a week after he was floored by Kiharu MP Irungu Kang&rsquo;ata in the Jubilee Party primaries.Kitui Senator David Musila resigned as Wiper chairman and will now run for the governor seat as an independent candidate. Musila lost to the incumbent Dr Julius Malombe.Many aspirants cite the spate of shambolic or unfair nominations across parties as the reason for the last- minute decisions to quit.