National under-16 soccer champions St. Anthony of Kitale and Wiyeta from Trans Nzoia have qualified for today&rsquo;s finals as Kenya Secondary School Sports Association (KSSSA) Rift Valley Term 2A games enters the final day.St. Anthony, who have maintained unbeaten run in the competition eliminated Brother Beusang of Kajiado 1-0 in an entertaining semi-final match. Elly Saenyi netted the all important goal to catapult the team to the final. Kitale-based side have a date in the final with Ortum from West Pokot, who thrashed Moi Sirgoi from Nandi 6-0 in their semi-final.Saints&rsquo; team manager, Peter Mayoyo, said his players had played according to instructions. &ldquo;So far we have had no injuries and the boys are in good shape for the final. They have really done a good job because making it through preliminaries to the final is no mean task,&rdquo; Mayoyo said. He said they are focused on defending their national title but first things first and they will have to win at the regional games.&ldquo;We have to be very tactical during the final and the boys are aware. We have discussed it and they are focusing on a win,&rdquo; he added. Wiyeta ran over St. Andrew&rsquo;s Carabete 4-1 in the women&rsquo;s semis to advance to the final, where they will meet former national champions Tartar from West Pokot. Wiyeta netted the scores through Laventine Lihema, Rodha Wanyama, Centrix Shikanga and Monica Etot before Joan Audi scored a consolation goal for the losers.Tartar on the other hand, narrowly qualified after beating Ngeria of Uasin Gishu 3-2 in the penalty shoot-outs after a 1-1 draw in the regulation time. Former national handball girls champions St.Francis Chepterit from Nandi regained their former glory after booking a date in the final with Kirandich. They beat Graceland 29-15 while Kirandich saw off Nasokol 20-17 in their respective semi-finals matches. Sinyereri face Saniak in the boys&rsquo; handball final.In athletics, Monica Chirchir from Kipkaech secondary in Baringo won the 10,000m in 34:30.3, beating Catherine Reline to second in 35:01.7 while Sisco Chepng&rsquo;etich was third in 35:40.3. In 1,500m, Justus Soget clocked 3:40.9 to beat Maxson Kingetich (3:43.6) and Simon Kipkosgey (3:49.9) ton second and third places respectively.