Luo and Suba elders in Homa Bay have urged NASA presidential flagbearer Raila Odinga to accommodate Nyanza independent candidates.The more than 40 elders said the candidates would help Raila get votes to boost his chances of winning the presidency on the August 8 polls.The elders led by Homa Bay branch Luo Council of Elders&rsquo; secretary Joram Okola and chairman Willy Mwai said accommodating the independents will also unite Raila supporters in the region. &ldquo;We appeal to &lsquo;Joshua&rsquo; Raila to bring on board those contesting for various elective seats in this region, because they are part of his voters. Their votes are part of the 50+1 votes he needs to win in round one,&rdquo; Okola said. They spoke to journalists at a Homa Bay town hotel on Wednesday.The elders told Raila and other NASA bosses to never underrate the support of independent candidates.They told the opposition leaders to borrow a leaf from their Jubilee counterparts, who have accommodated the independents.The elders urged the NASA leaders to read Zachariah 11:7 in the Bible, which highlights about uniting the people. &ldquo;We acknowledge that differences emerged after the shambolic party primaries, but this should not be given room to split NASA votes. Elders call for a united force ahead of the election,&rdquo; Okola added. He urged the NASA bosses to speak in one accord and avoid conflicting views to enable Kenyans entrust them with leadership.Mwai said they endorsed Raila&rsquo;s presidential candidature due to his maturity in politics. &ldquo;He [Raila] has brought tremendous change in the country and we promise to mobilise the support he deserves,&rdquo; hesaid.Council member George Mijumbe urged politicians who secured tickets under the NASA umbrella to preach unity. &ldquo;If you won a ticket fairly, then I don&rsquo;t see any reason to panic because you will be voted again in main the election. We want everybody to conduct peaceful campaigns the region,&rdquo; Mwai said.Members Maurice Kabaraka and Florence Okello urged the IEBC to conduct free and fair election to avoid violence. Recently, Raila shunned the independents, saying the they will only campaign for candidates from NASA-affiliated parties to ensure the alliance gets a majority of senators, governors, MPs and MCAs. &ldquo;We are not only focused on winning the presidency, but we also want to have more representation in both the Houses of Parliament to enable us effectively undertake our agenda in the government,&rdquo; he said.