The Kenya 15s team will tour New Zealand next year as part of the preparations for the 2019 Rugby World Cup qualifiers.According to the deal, which is courtesy of Tatu City, the Simbas will undergo training alongside Super rugby outfit, the Chiefs in the Taranaki Province in New Zealand. Tatu City commercial manager, Tito Oduk, said training in New Zealand will be a major boost for Simbas ahead of the World Cup qualifiers.&ldquo;It&rsquo;s all about synchronising our local calendar. Our plan is to take the boys down to Taranaki Province which is part of the Waikato Chiefs and work with them because Tatu City CEO is also a sponsor of Taranaki Rugby so he has deep roots and networks,&rdquo; added Oduk.He added: &ldquo; the move will expose the national team to quite high level of training. This is not just about going to Taranaki but also bringing their coaches and also union officials to work with Kenyans in a bid to improve capacity at administrative level. It&rsquo;s along term project because we don&rsquo;t want players to be on different levels from the officials,&rdquo; added Oduk.Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) chairman, Richard Omwela, said the ultimate prize will be to qualify for the Rugby World Cup in 2019 and 2023 and the union is working to ensure Simbas get adequate preparations by playing high quality test matches. &ldquo;This is good initiative by Tatu City and it will build the confidence within our players and aid them in their push to qualify for the Rugby World Cup,&rdquo; added Omwela.Elsewhere, KCB II edged Strathmore II 15-0 to win the Mwamba Cup II category. The bankers ran in two tries&mdash;one penalty and a conversion. Brody Kagai and Elly Mukaizi touched down for the bankers junior side as Essau Otieno sent in a conversion. It was a memorable day for the bankers as their senior side bagged the Enterprise Cup, beating Kabras 27-23 to win for third year running and complete the double. Newly promoted Kenya Cup side Kisii RFC bagged another trophy, beating Catholic Monks 31-18 to win the Mwamba Cup played by Championship teams. Alvin Marube had two tries as John Ochar and Jimley Maina crossed over with Kevin Prince converting four touch downs. Bonface Amimo had two tries for Monks as Newton Wasike converted both and sent in a penalty.