Was opposition chief Raila Odinga (Kenya&rsquo;s Joshua) on a reconnaissance mission to Israel 90 days before the start of the journey to the land of promise? Well, the visit to Jerusalem - a biblical town with immense Christian tradition - was seen as a symbolic mission aimed at inspiring Kenyans for change in the August 8 polls. The opposition chief&rsquo;s tour of Israel sparked a social media frenzy with many likening his visit to that of the biblical Joshua to Canaan. Photos of the ex-premier in the City of David or Zion caused a buzz as Kenyans tried to attach all form of symbolism to the trip.***** He in recent times stole every show and became a hero and a victim in equal measure. However, Fred Matiang&rsquo;i, the no-nonsense Education CS has gone in to some kind of hibernation. Both his defenders and haters are concerned over his studious silence from public glare. Is the CS plotting another academic earthquake that might shake the country in the coming days, or has he succumbed to the behind-the-scenes shenanigans at the expense of public interest? The staunch SDA faithful will most likely surface with another bombshell that may shock politicians eyeing seats in August. ***** Just what is going in the security corridors of Parliament? Well, this column is reliably informed security wardens recently hired from the NYS are a frustrated lot after some of their top bosses connived to ensure their contracts are not renewed. As if this is not enough, the wardens have been the subject of stigmatisation and sexual overtures. Those who turn down demands are either given bad recommendations or &ldquo;disciplined.&rdquo; What also worries them are the never-ending threats from the departmental leadership that has literally made their work at the August House a nightmare. The youths are now appealing to Parliament to come to their aid and stop the blatant harassment. ***** WHAT could a top officer in the Ministry of Lands be after? That&rsquo;s the question on many lips in the Office of the President as the actions of the individual continue unabated. Corridors has it that the arrogance of the senior officer at the ministry is alarming. The individual has helped his relatives register a company and that has been getting tenders for more than four years. Officials at the OP are calling for the intervention of the EACC, saying the case at hand is a clear abuse of office, conflict of interest and violation of the Public Procurement Act. With Jubilee already facing accusations of doing little to fight graft, the latest scam could be dangerous.