CID officers have so far recorded statements from six people as part of investigations into the murder of the three children of Eldoret MCA aspirant James Ratemo.The six include a key witness who claims to have seen prime suspect Enock Onsase with the children.They are said to have been crossing the streets in the town minutes after they were reported missing from Kapsoya Estate on May 13. Others who have recorded statements include Ratemo, his wife Ebby, the children&rsquo;s cousin and a caretaker at the Ratemos&rsquo; home in Kapsoya.UNCLE MAIN SUSPECTOnsase, the children&rsquo;s uncle, is in police custody as investigations continue. He may be charged with murder on June 6. &ldquo;All the family members required to record statements have done so and investigations are ongoing,&rdquo; said family lawyer Charles Nyamweya. Police are analysing mobile phone communications by Onsase to establish if other people were involved.Data from the phone has been taken to Nairobi for analysis before the uncle returns to court next week. Clifford Nyamweya, seven, Dan Nyamweya, five, and Glen Ongaki, three, will be buried at Nyacheke village in Kisii on June 9. A postmortem was conducted at the Moi Referral Hospital led by Dr Keittany Kibet. It revealed that the children lacked air in the lungs, an indication they had been strangled.STRANGLED&ldquo;Our finding is they had a lot of bleeding around the neck, pointing towards strangulation. The challenge we had is the bodies had decomposed, having not been preserved for more than three days,&rdquo; Kibet said.Pathologists said the three children were strangled to death before their bodies were thrown into River Nzoia.Nyamweya says they are going on with burial arrangements to take place in Kisii next week. &ldquo;The family is preparing the burial site and we will have a funeral service in Eldoret possibly on Wednesday next week before the bodies are moved to Kisii for burial,&rdquo; said Nyamweya.On Friday last week, Uasin Gishu county rejected a proposal to bury the three children in a residential estate in Eldoret town, saying Ratemo&rsquo;s plot is too small.