For years, female genital mutilation has meant the death of sexual pleasure and caused pain, suffering and even death.That is no longer true for many cases, in which simple reconstructive surgery can restore pleasure and open the vagina for non-painful intercourse and childbirth.Today, a handful of FGM survivors in Kenya are receiving free reconstructive surgery, rehabilitation and counselling by French organisation Clitoraid. Its mission is: &ldquo;Restoring a sense of pleasure and dignity&rdquo;.It&rsquo;s a first in Kenya. There&rsquo;s clamour for it and surgeons are being trained.A human right &ldquo;Sexual feeling is a right, recognised by the UN as a human right. It is one of the basic human senses,&rdquo; Dr Marci Bowers tells the Star. She is a gynaecological and reconstructive surgeon from California.She leads the team that includes Dr Adan Abdullahi, a reconstructive surgeon at Nairobi University, Kenyatta and Karen hospitals, and Dr Loise Kahoro, a reconstructive surgeon from Kenyatta Hospital.Surgeries are performed at the Karen and Mama Lucy hospitals.&ldquo;So many people are unclear about what happens in FGM,&rdquo; Dr Bowers said. They think the clitoris is very tiny. But we know from reconstructive work that the clitoris &mdash; now that we have mapped it &mdash; is more than 11cm in length.Even in the severest cases of FGM, 95 per cent of the clitoris is still there, Bowers said. &ldquo;We are able to clean it up, bring it through the skin, bring it to the surface and sew it there.&ldquo;This is the operation. It&rsquo;s just that simple and complications are very minor. It&rsquo;s an amazing surgery.&rdquo; she said.Given the great extent of the problem, the aim is to make surgery accessible to everyone who wants it.&ldquo;We did not want it to be an opportunity that can be accessed only by rich women who have had the cut,&rdquo; Dr Adan says. &ldquo;We didn&rsquo;t want it to be an elitist surgical procedure, we wanted it to be across the board.&rdquo;In recovery, patients experience some pain during the first 24 hours, but it is controlled with medication. They are able to resume most activities fully within a week and can even have sex after four to six weeks.&ldquo;When we ask women why they want the surgery, there is a sexual component, but the most important reason is this: they want it because they feel something was taken from them,&rdquo; Dr Bowers said.&ldquo;The surgery is an attempt to regain their identity and what was lost. To take charge of their body.&rdquo;Age should not be a deterrent, she said. The oldest patients treated by the organisation are in their 60s. The youngest undergoing surgery in Kenya is 18.&ldquo;There is no age at which you lose sexual feeling. We think of sex as a young person&rsquo;s thing, but we don&rsquo;t lose our sense of touch or smell as we age, so sexual feelings can be enjoyed at any age,&rdquo; Bowers said.&ldquo;Life is to be enjoyed, and this is one of the basic senses.&rdquo;Controversy in Burkina Faso However, in 2015, the organisation had problems in Burkina Faso. Doctors&rsquo; licences were revoked and plans for a clinic were cancelled by the government.They have speculated this may have been caused by politics or money, since there&rsquo;s money to be made in performing FGM. It is also speculated the ban could be linked to the religion of the founder of Clitoraid, Maitreya Rael, who started the religion Raelism. Followers believe the founder was visited by aliens, who explained human origins and how to plan the future.It was suggested that &lsquo;cut&rsquo; women in Burkina Faso, out of gratitude for reconstructive surgery, would abandon traditional religions and join the movement, a claim Clitoraid has denied.&ldquo;We only go where we are welcome. We realise there are skeptics and that is why it&rsquo;s important to be objective and to put science behind what we do,&rdquo; Dr Bowers said.&ldquo;It was very murky, very sinister. Why the opposition? Why would the government, so far removed from the actual people, object to this? It just doesn&rsquo;t make sense,&rdquo; Bowers said.Dr Bowers maintains contact with all her patients who have her mobile number and email. &ldquo;One of the things I love is getting awakened at 2am because someone had their first orgasm,&rdquo; she said.