Kenya have withdrawn from hosting the World Sitting Para Volleyball qualifiers earlier scheduled for May 15-22 in Nairobi due to lack of funds. Kenya Sitting Volleyball Federation made the announced the withdrawal after the government said they will not afford financing the event which was expected to be hosted at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani because of other financial obligations and implications of hosting other international and continental championships in the country. In a letter addressed to the Kenya Sitting Volleyball Federation (KSVF) president Polycarp Mboya, director of administration in the Ministry of Sports, Haroun Komen, on behalf of the Principal Secretary, said they are constrained financially. “Further to your letter dated March 10th, 2017, the Ministry of Sports has been overwhelmed with financial requests and currently is constrained by the World Athletics Under-18 championships and Africa Nations Championships (CHAN) events and therefore we are unable to host other world events for now,” read the letter in part. The World Under-18 Championships will be held from July 12-16 at the Safaricom Stadium, Kasarani whereas the three-week 16-nation football tournament is scheduled for early next year. The Kenya Sitting Volleyball Federation had sought for commitment from the government as guarantee which is a requirement in financing the qualifiers at a cost of Sh30 million. Fifteen countries were expected to participate in the qualifiers (both the men’s and women) with the top two teams in each category qualifying for the World Cup to be hosted at the Sportcampus Zuiderpark in The Hague in July next year. Early this year, the Africa ParaVolley Board met and designated Kenya as the next organiser of the 2018 World Sitting Volleyball Championships for Africa qualifying tournament, following a presentation made by the Kenyan local governing federation. The local para sitting volleyball president said the development was disheartening as it shows how disability sports are not being taken seriously by the government which seems to be prioritising sports for the able bodied. “The event would have given our teams and players an opportunity of getting exposed which would have developed the sport in the country and even qualify by being buoyed by home crowd support,” said Mboya.