The daughter of North Mugirango MP Charles Mong&rsquo;are and her Muslim boyfriend have said no amount of intimidation from the MP will separate them.Erisiana Sabiri and her lover Salim Lali had appeared in court on Friday over &lsquo;terrorism links&rsquo; but were released without charges. And as soon as Nairobi magistrate Martha Mutuku ordered their release, Salim said: &ldquo;We have been set free and we are happy. We have been in remand since Thursday, but this will not stop our love. We are in love and we have told court the same.&rdquo; Mong&rsquo;are is seeking reelection on the ODM ticket.He had been summoned to court to explain claims by his daughter that he had trumped terrorism charges against the two because he is unhappy she is dating a Muslim.The politician did not turn up as ordered.Mong&rsquo;are was, however, given three hours to present himself at the Anti-Terrorism Police Unit offices to collect his daughter.&ldquo;There is no issue of terrorism here. These are issues of parenting. I have decided to release the two respondents to their parents,&rdquo; the magistrate said. It took further intervention of the magistrate to convince Sabiri to go back to the ATPU offices where she was taken for questioning and fingerprint taking following her arrest on Thursday last week. She was afraid the father will keep her away from Salim.&ldquo;In case anything else arises, the two are at liberty to approach the court,&rdquo; their lawyer, Wilson Nadwa, said.Salim&rsquo;s father told the court he has no problem with the two dating. &ldquo;I will go home and take a hot shower and probably I will take her out to watch a movie. I am, however, afraid that once Sabira is picked by her father, he will try to detain her,&rdquo; said Salim, an ICT Student.Sabiri, 22, and Salim, 24, were not required to plead to the charges after the prosecution said investigations were incomplete.Police said they were following leads that the two were involved in terrorism activities, and were communicating with known terrorist.Yesterday, Mutuku held a brief session in camera with the two, the investigating officer and Salim&rsquo;s father.Mutuku later said the court treated the file as for minors, adding their parents should guide them.After their release, Salim claimed Mong&rsquo;are had tried to coerce her daughter to leave him on Thursday as a condition to drop the charges, but she would not hear of it.The two, however are required to report to the ATPU once a week in the next one month.They are also not allowed to leave the country for a period of 30 days.The case will be mentioned on June 21.