A woman who finds herself in some sections of the Nairobi city centre, such as Ronald Ngala Street, will more often than not be bombarded by her fellow sisters.The women try to convince her to buy &lsquo;100 per cent real human hair&rsquo; [is there fake human hair?], a regimen for flawless skin or perhaps &lsquo;safe bleaching cream to help you get rangi ya thao [light skin]&rsquo;.Light skin has for a long time been considered the Holy Grail; the epitome of beauty among women. It is only recently that the &lsquo;melanin revolution&rsquo; took off. The movement celebrates women who are not in the &lsquo;yellow yellow&rsquo; category, women whose skin complexion runs from chocolate, all the way to ebony.Darker women are many times ranked at the bottom of the pecking order. Or how else would we explain the term &lsquo;black beauty&rsquo;? Although this term is meant to be a compliment, it can also be an insult. Is black not usually beautiful?These are some of the issues and conversations Kisumu photographer Fiona Adhiambo seeks to address in her &lsquo;my black is beauty&rsquo; campaign that began in March.Fiona, 26, is passionate about using the lens to address social issues. She runs the Jaber Foundation that seeks to empower women.She says she does not struggle with self-acceptance because of her skin colour, but has seen many women suffer low self-esteem because they are dark.Through the black is beauty campaign, Fiona showcases the stories of dark women and their stories of beauty and finding self-acceptance.&ldquo;The initiative is meant to spread positivity, self love and empowerment among darker women,&rdquo; Fiona says."We wanted to open dialogue about the traditional standards of beauty and campaign against skin bleaching among young women. We want to raise a generation of strong women who accept themselves the way they are."POSITIVE RESPONSEFiona says the feedback from the campaign has been overwhelming. &ldquo;This is something that affects us all. Whether light-skinned or dark, someone somewhere will have something negative to say about your skin colour. So it's upon you to be confident in your skin.&rdquo;Fiona has always been passionate about the Arts. She studied journalism at Maseno University for two years before dropping out in 2012 because of a surprise pregnancy.&ldquo;My parents were so disappointed in me. They said first I rebelled and went ahead to study a course that can take me nowhere, and then to make matters worse, I brought them shame by getting pregnant out of wedlock and while still in college,&rdquo; she says.To make matters worse, the father of the baby denied responsibility and her friends started to distance themselves from her.Fiona says she was determined to keep her baby but decided to go to her rural home &ldquo;for a change of scenery&rdquo;.Her pregnancy was a rough one. &ldquo;I ended up getting a C-section two weeks before I was due because my water broke but I had no labour pains. When we went to the doctor, I was told I had a low-lying placenta, so my mum advised me to undergo a C-section to avoid putting me and my baby in danger. I had really wanted to have the baby naturally because I had heard horror stories about C-sections, but I was told it was the better option.&rdquo;Fiona had a baby girl she named Jewel. With nothing much to do at her rural home, she started getting bored, and that is how she stumbled upon photography. &ldquo;When Jewel was about six months old, I realised she liked to smile a lot. My uncle had a camera so I started using it to take photos of my baby. They came out beautifully and it is then I realised I had a natural talent for photography. I started borrowing his camera and taking shots of different sceneries and everyone said the pictures were beautiful.&rdquo;Fiona has never looked back and has expanded her wings to film.MOTIVATING YOUNG MOTHERSBecause she knows all too well the struggle of being a mother in college, Fiona decided to reach out to others in the same situation.Last month, Fiona got an opportunity to speak to student mums at Maseno University about accepting and embracing their situation.&ldquo;The thought of being a mum and you are in campus can be unsettling. There are many challenges and stigmas that come with it. If you don't have a strong support system, you can lose your mind. But it's not the end of the road. You can still make it. I went through the same and I kid you not, I was shaken. Life has never been the same. I cried buckets but that never changed anything. This was it. That was where I was and I had to make a choice. It's either I let this define me or embrace it and make the best out of it.&rdquo;Fiona is passionate about women&rsquo;s empowerment and this month, she has launched a series called &lsquo;Women Working Kisumu&rsquo;, where her Jaber Foundation celebrates 10 outstanding women working to bring positive change and are a source of inspiration to other young women.&ldquo;We ask our audience to nominate their candidate, then we share their stories on our page, Humans of Kisumu, for the public to vote. The 10 ladies with the most votes stand a chance of winning fabulous prizes courtesy of Jaber Foundation and Jareke Media and Production House, managed by former Miss World Kenya Juliet Atieno.&rdquo;UPS AND DOWNSFiona&rsquo;s journey in photography has not always been smooth. Before she had her feet firmly placed in the industry, she had short stints in several firms.She worked for a photography firm in Kisumu for a few months and she gained a lot of experience, but the pay was not good. &ldquo;I still could not support myself and my daughter, so my mum took Jewel to ease the burden.&rdquo;In between working and raising her child, Fiona met a man in 2014 who was supportive and did not mind the fact that she had a child. The two got married.After working for some time in the photography firm, Fiona decided to expand her scope and joined a local radio station as a show producer in December 2014. &ldquo;There are people who have to go to school and study radio production to understand how things work, and even then, some don&rsquo;t succeed. But for me, it came naturally.&rdquo;Fiona, however, did not get the fulfilment she used to get from photography. &ldquo;The job was so routine: get up every morning, go to work, come back home. It was not exciting.&rdquo;On June 1, 2015, Fiona wrote a note in her diary that she would resign within three weeks. Though she was worried what her parents would think, she said she had to quit.&ldquo;My mother wondered what was wrong with me. She said, just when I get something good, I spoil it. I had been struggling to make ends meet with the other job and now here was a stable job and I was throwing it away, my mum told me.&rdquo;Fiona went back to her rural home for three months as she plotted her next move.JABER FOUNDATIONFiona said she wanted to form a company so she could be in more control of her time, and she thought of film production. She said she tried to search for women film producers in Kisumu to connect with but couldn&rsquo;t find any.&ldquo;It is then that I realised that Kisumu is a sleeping county when it comes to film production. In the entire country, I think I can count less than 10 well-known film producers, and in Kisumu, I cannot name a single person.&rdquo;With that, she decided to take on the industry and started the Jaber Foundation, a mentorship platform for young girls and women who aspire to be in the film industry.&ldquo;My mum thought I had completely lost it this time. She asked me who just wakes up one day and decides to start a company? But to me I felt this was it,&rdquo; Fiona said.The Jaber Foundation&rsquo;s first project, Humans of Kisumu, documents inspirational stories about people from Kisumu through photography. Fiona says she wants TO expand her family at some point in the future. She concludes by saying that it is important to follow your dreams, because in due time, everything works out.