The standard gauge railway is a game changer &ndash; potentially. Once operational, it will open up opportunities along the entire 930km line coursing from Mombasa to Kisumu &ndash; and beyond. But this, certainly, calls for ingenuity.According to The International Railway Journal, the SGR will shorten the journey from Mombasa to Nairobi by eight hours, from 12 to four. Passenger trains will travel at 120km/h, while cargo trains will carry 25 million tonnes per year at 100km/hour.The SGR will, in the not too distant future, become the ultimate game changer in Kenya&rsquo;s economic fortunes. This possibility is what should be occupying our minds.In history, the impacts of railroads on national economies are well-known, from giving the Industrial Revolution its takeoff in the United States in 1843-1860. Historians and economists agreed that the railroads were central to creating the US national economy and provided templates for the running of really large corporations.But, being as it is, a piece of modern infrastructure and novel on our shores, the SGR will, very likely, end up meaning much more than its predecessor - the 100-year-old Lunatic Express. The maligning of the SGR has more to do with abject closed-mindedness.It will introduce myriad opportunities and activities thatnow appear remote and, perhaps, even a mere figment of the imagination.As Aly Khan Satchu, CEO of Rich Management Ltd, has often observed, the SGR&rsquo;s most widespread and tangible benefits will be its multiple spillover effects. It is these less obvious but very likely benefits that we should explore.First, the inevitable emergence of trading centres along its route, especially in the immediate neighbourhoods of termini, will certainly influence a new socioeconomic dynamic whose value will manifest in now unforeseen opportunities. One of those opportunities is in trade.Whenever people huddle in a common area&mdash;which is what the stopovers along the SGR&rsquo;s 33-strong detours will eventually do&mdash;traders will instinctively troop in. The human clusters will require their daily needs met. Therefore, from food to clothing, construction to training, opportunities will definitely abound. Artisans of all orientation will, for instance, find ready-made hubs for their skills. And so will a host of other professionals such as teachers, lawyers and healthcare givers.At the moment, the obvious prospects occasioned by the multiple enterprises may look too distant but they are as real as they will be instinctive in the fullness of time.Second, the SGR comes at an opportune time in our history, when Kenyans in their numbers are progressively inching into and occupying the middle-income cadres. This means that if the SGR operator summons the ingenuity and boldness to create travel offers and packages that give locals a real see-and-feel-Kenya opportunity, the elusive, yet crucial local, tourism sector could blossom beyond imagination.A vibrant local tourism culture will benefit many entrepreneurs in the hospitality sector and offer hundreds of jobs to Kenyans, especially the youth. Profitable jobs away from key urban centres mean that the craze to head to Nairobi, Mombasa or Kisumu will die out. The county governments, on the other hand, will enjoy higher taxes from facilities that would not have been put up without the railway.Third, once businesspeople gather confidence that the goods they fabricate and farm produce they add value to will reach their target markets with logistical predictability, industries will naturally sprout.And talking of the establishment of industries, Vision 2030 envisioned that Kenya would tread the path of sustainable progress when an industrial culture finally kicks in.With the SGR in place there will be reason for manufacturers and processors to set up enterprises, which will ride the crest of affordable transport that offers a more certain rhythm and reliable routine. Who knows, it just might be that the biggest boon from the SGR will be the launch of Kenya&rsquo;s much-awaited industrial takeoff.