Nyanza region secondary schools rugby 7&rsquo;s champions Maseno School started their title defence on a positive note, beating St Joseph&rsquo;s Rapogi 21-7 at Maranda School yesterday.Maseno had a flying start with Cedrick Andika touching down and Brian Ayimba converting. Fred Okoth added the second try which Ayimba converted again. Leon Nyang&rsquo; scored the first try for Rapogi after evading several tackles to touch down as George Obala converted.The game went into the breather with Maseno leading 14-7. In the second half, Benjamin Okeyo increased Maseno&rsquo;s tally with a try which was converted by Ian Andy to hand Maseno a 21-7 win. Rapogi recovered from the loss to beat Kisii School 19-12 while Uriri lost their second consecutive game, going down 0-7 to Nyabondo. Rapogi coach Enock Mokua said: &ldquo;Maseno outclassed my boys but being the first game I&rsquo;m not worried.&rdquo;In another match, Kisii County champions Cardinal Otunga High School, Mosocho hit St Pius Uriri 24-0 while Agoro Sare had a hard fought 12-7 win over St Paul&rsquo;s Gekano 12-7. Homa Bay Boys defeated Nyambaria School 19-0. Boys&rsquo; handball defending champions started their title defence on losing note, going down 25-31 to Oriwo. Giants Maseno School also started their campaign on a losing note succumbing to a 23-24 defeat to minnows Rang&rsquo;ala in a tension packed match. Kanyawanga upset St. Mary&rsquo;s Yala 21-15.Girls&rsquo; defending champions St. Ann&rsquo;s Sega were in a class of their own, beating debutants Radienya 30-6 while Kisumu&rsquo;s Kirembe beat Marindi 3-15. Anyiko defeated St. Mary&rsquo;s Mabera 20-15.In under-16 football, reigning East Africa secondary schools champions Barding had a flying start thumping Masosa 5-0 in a one sided match. Wera defeated Mbita High 3-0 while Oruba upset Kisii County&rsquo;s Gesero 1-0. Favourites Kisumu Day narrowly beat Migori County&rsquo;s Kodero Bara 1-0. In the girls &lsquo;category, holders Abwao walloped Hawinga 5-0 while last year&rsquo;s runners up Kobala defeated Gekomoni 2-0.