It is now official, the Kenya Association of Independent Candidates has been officially launched. At a rally in Kasarani Stadium, Nairobi, at the weekend attended by at least 2,500 aspirants, they sent out a terse message to the Jubilee Party to ignore them at their own peril.As the largest group of aspirants in Kenya they warned the President not to endorse any of the Jubilee nominees if he intends to get support from their quarter. Several of the Independents are close allies of the President and Deputy President. They are financially well-heeled and their radical move has created a dilemma for Jubilee.Amongst the interim officials are William Kabogo as chairman, Zedekiah Bundotich as vice chairman and Tetu MP Ndung&rsquo;u Gethenji (a close friend and former schoolmate of President Uhuru Kenyatta) as secretary general.Uhuru had been invited but chose to give it a wide berth, perhaps not to embarrass his Deputy, who was holding a parallel rally of Jubilee aspirants in Laikipia.The forthcoming presidential and General Election of August 8 will perhaps be the most competitive and closely contested in Kenya&rsquo;s history.In 2013 Jubilee met the 50-plus-one election threshold, It would therefore be suicidal for Jubilee to ignore the interests of the KAIC, the new kid on the block.They will be forced to alter their political strategies drastically to accommodate the new players. The President may be forced to abandon Jubilee nominees to the mercy of their respective strongholds to decide. Anything short of this could drive a critical mass of voters away or lead to voter apathy.NASA must be looking on gleefully as Jubilee reels from a self-inflicted sucker punch.How did we get here and where did the rain start beating Jubilee?Political analysts are of the opinion that Uhuru abdicated political and executive authority to his deputy. He gave him carte-blanche powers that led to the dissolution of TNA and URP and the creation of the Jubilee Party.Despite several hiccups, in the ill-advised process William Ruto drove the process like a man possessed and rammed it down the throats of TNA/URP supporters. A number of small parties were wound-up and swallowed in the process.Ruto was determined to have both the Mt Kenya and Rift Valley vote locked in the Jubilee vault to ensure a smooth transfer of power in 2022. He however overshot his runway by planting allies in elective seats in both regions in 2017, thus upstaging his boss who had more urgent vested interests.In an unprecedented move, the majority of the President&rsquo;s staunch allies were put to the sword during the primaries. These are the vanquished men and women who have now morphed into the KAIC.Their first agenda is to undo what Ruto has painstakingly done in Mt Kenya and Rift Valley. Smarting from recent electoral defeat in the primaries, they are prepared to use their deep pockets to rescue their political careers from oblivion.In overstepping himself, Ruto may have unwittingly created a bigger problem for himself in future, as well as placing his boss somewhere between a rock and a hard place currently.Truth be told, Uhuru cannot single-handedly transfer power to Ruto in 2022.He needs the support of other political players, especially in the Jubilee strongholds. Ruto has alienated and created too many powerful enemies, especially in Central, which will be a drawback to his 2022 presidential ambitions.Many were sceptical of their support in 2022. He has now given them the perfect excuse not to support his presidency bid.Has Kenya&rsquo;s arguably most daring politician fallen on his own sword? Only time will tell where or how his political fortunes are headed.