The private sector should invest heavily in programmes aimed at promoting peaceful August 8 election, a high-level forum of chief executives for peace building and credible elections in Nairobi heard yesterday. The Kenya National Chamber of Commerce said its study, which borrows heavily from the 2007-8 deadly post-election violence, showed that the private sector is usually the hardest hit in an unlikely event of skirmishes. It may take about 26 months for businesses to recover from slump in economic activities as a result of violent presidential election dispute. &ldquo;It is my hope that as the private sector we will rally together with other sectors to call for a peaceful and credible election, and our members will also join in and support these efforts,&rdquo; KNCCI chairman Kiprono Kittony said. The KNCCI data sourced from the World Bank and the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics shows that the country&rsquo;s economy shrunk by 0.8 per cent in the wake of the first multiparty elections ( 1992 ) which was marred by tribal clashes.The 2007-08 post-election violence slowed down Kenya&rsquo;s growth to 0.2 per cent ( a revision from 1.5 per cent following September 2014 rebasing) from 6.9 per cent in 2007, data from KNBS shows. &ldquo;Declassification of Kenya from a developing country mainly due to a vibrant private sector should be enough cause for the private sector to step up and lead the rallying call for sustainable peace and credible election,&rdquo; KNCCI manager for trade research and policy Kassim Were said. Kenya Association of Manufacturers chief executive Phyllis Wakiaga said that businesses needed to champion issue based politics over the next three months in order to facilitate peaceful and credible elections. She reiterated the need for employers to sensitise employees on the impact of unlikely negative outcomes of violence not only to the economy but to the workers themselves. &ldquo;Kenyans should not be dragged into non-issues of politics. It is important that we bring our employees to the realization that election is just an event which after business must go on,&rdquo; Wakiaga said. KNCCI partnered with inter-faith leaders, Kenya Administration Police, KCA University, among others, to host the forum aimed at bringing together business leaders to share and sign a commitment to fully support peaceful and credible elections through the Peace Project.The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission chief executive Ezra Chiloba urged CEOs to allow employees time for one-month biometric voter verification process from Thursday.