NASA has recently been desperately looking to cut chinks through Deputy President William Ruto&rsquo;s vast political defences.Their aim now, more than ever, is to neuter his influence in the Rift Valley, the region considered the last unconquered bastion of the Jubilee juggernaut &ndash; of course with the exception of Mt Kenya. Their blades aimed at the right place &ndash; only they don&rsquo;t know yet how to cut it, and every method they have tried has not yielded much. One of the most vigorous methods they tried was to create the narrative that the Kikuyu are not to be trusted and so the chances of their backing DP Ruto for the Uhuru succession in 2022 will be near-zero. The Kalenjins, however, have resolutely refused to cut their political links with the Kikuyu, holding instead that, in the end, if indeed they will suffer from unrequited love, it would still have been better to have loved and lost, than not to have loved at all. The second thing in the search for something to pierce the heart of DP Ruto&rsquo;s influence was the appointment of Isaac Rutto as the fifth NASA principal. This has not had the desired effect, because the Kalenjins fear that following Isaac&rsquo;s &ldquo;route to Canaan&rdquo; will deliver them there long after &lsquo;Joshua&rsquo; has finished writing his final memoirs.The third knife was to create a wedge between Ruto and the President, a friendship that seems to first be personal before it became political. This has again failed because, as in real love, it thrives only in the Opposition and many a lover has been drawn ever closer to those they are warned against. This means that, so far, the Rift Valley remains firmly in the hands of Jubilee. Of course Jubilee leaders in the Rift Valley facing the heat of reelection, had also taken to scapegoating DP Ruto for their woes and also painting some of their opponents as the DP&rsquo;s &lsquo;projects&rsquo;. It was curious that none of the fallen Jubilee leaders in the Mt Kenya region ever blamed the President for their woes &ndash; but Ruto&rsquo;s name came up many times. When NASA took up that line again, the fire had died out.If the President has been silent about the turbulence in the Rift Valley, it has been because his friendship with his deputy has not given him reason to doubt the region&rsquo;s commitment to his reelection.