Jubilee leaders in Mombasa met on Thursday to strategise on securing majority votes in the August 8 polls.Top on the agenda was how to counter NASA "propaganda" in the county led by Hassan Joho with "facts".They also discussed how votes will be guarded during the election, after claims that President Uhuru Kenyatta was rigged in 2013.At the meeting held at Methodist Church, Coast Development Authority director Ibrahim Khamisi said each polling station will be manned by five Jubilee lieutenants, beside agents. He is a member of Uhuru's campaign team."Each will be a registered voter and a Jubilee supporter. They must be voters at that particular polling station. This will be the time the rubber will meet the road,&rdquo; he said.NASA intends to apply the same strategy by placing 450,000 agents across the country. Beside agents, university student volunteers will be deployed to polling stations countrywide. They will be equipped with satellite phones to relay live the presidential results declared by presiding officers.The volunteers will be embedded with the presidential candidates&rsquo; agents and pockets of election observers in all polling stations."This is the only opportunity for us to change the current leadership. If we don't do that, who will?" Jubilee Mombasa chair Matano Chengo said.The party had been termed as "going underground" and not campaigning when the presidency leaves town.Khamisi said campaigns should have been underway by now because the course is tough."Better late than never. We are here now. Let's plan ahead before the official campaign date," he stated.Jubilee is angling to have Suleiman Shahbal and Anania Mwaboza oust Joho.Mombasa is strategic for Jubilee economically. This explains the quest to have their own rule no matter what.The situation has been compounded by plans to set up a dry port in Naivasha, which is being opposed by Joho.Read: Joho team trashes Jubilee in Coast after UhuRuto's massive campaignsAlso read: Jubilee reaps big as Coast leaders leave oppositionNaivasha will have a dry port where some of the activities being carried out at Kenya Ports Authority will be transferred to."We must have a clear route to follow. Our objective must be well defined and crafted. It won't be guess work," Khamisi said.He said Jubilee officials in the county should not wait for Shahbal or Mwaboza to join their campaigns."We are the owners of the party. They are just candidates. We have bigger stake so we must take our roles seriously. They can't do it for us," Khamisi said.Matano said the Raila Odinga dynasty will end in 2017.He said coast has been out in the cold for long and cannot afford to be left out again.