A few weeks ago on this column, the last weekend in April to be specific, I talked about the age of 40 &ndash; what to expect when you get to that age, and how to calmly deal with getting older. At the very end of my reflections about this age on that occasion, I put it in a sentence that 40-year-olds actually have more fun than people imagine.&lsquo;What fun?&rsquo; I can almost hear a whole lot of young people asking. Well, in this edition, I&rsquo;ll tell you exactly what fun people aged 40 and above get up to. And let me start by saying, it&rsquo;s a lot.I know it&rsquo;s difficult to imagine that people aged 40 and years subsequent have a social life; what with family, work, and all the other things they have to juggle, but I&rsquo;ve taken a long, hard look at this subject, and my conclusion is, having fun at 40 is better than the fun you get at 20.Let&rsquo;s start with the club scene. Now while it&rsquo;s true that you can no longer hack staying out all night at a club dancing and drinking, it&rsquo;s also true that at 40 you can still go out to a club, stay for a short while, consuming premium alcohol moderately. This means that at 40 your club-scene narrative usually goes: went to the club, left early with a buzz as opposed to sloshed, and I had a good night&rsquo;s rest. Two decades ago the story was very different, with the general plot moving along the lines, cheap alcohol and staying up all night does things to you.The one thing I&rsquo;ll admit you shouldn&rsquo;t do at 40 that you could do at 20, still on the club scene, is hit on girls. Nothing actually stops you from doing it, but if this doesn&rsquo;t make you feel like a creepy old man, I don&rsquo;t know what to tell you.Away from the club, a couple of more fun things you do at 40 that you couldn&rsquo;t do at 20.You go to see plays, sit still for hours, and enjoy yourself.You go on road trips with friends without needing alcohol to pass the time, or ear damaging music to accompany you; you prefer jazz, with the volume set on moderate. At 40, a road trip is about taking in the scenes, soaking up soft tunes, and enjoying the journey.And, at 40 you don&rsquo;t break out in a cold sweat when you find yourself at a gathering where you don&rsquo;t know anybody. You can comfortably talk to perfect strangers, have stimulating conversations, and have a great time with people you just met.The best thing though about having fun at 40 is that you don&rsquo;t have to do anything to have fun. You don&rsquo;t have to go out on New Year&rsquo;s Eve because everyone else is. It&rsquo;s not a must that you go to the hottest concert in town. And you don&rsquo;t need to go to a party just because all your friends are going and the booze is free. At 40 one can enjoy one&rsquo;s own company. You can stay at home, cook a great meal, and afterwards settle down with a book and a glass of good wine, or bourbon.Fun at 40 is mellow and self-assured. It&rsquo;s the kind of fun that doesn&rsquo;t come with a hangover and memory loss.