That the decision by the Kisii deputy governor to rejoin ODM has rattled Jubilee honchos from Kisii is no secret. Jubilee bigwigs from the region are reportedly in panic mode, following the exit of one of its key pillars, barely 85 days to the General Election. Party officials from the county are said to have gone back to the drawing board to shop for Joash Maangi&rsquo;s replacement in order to sustain the Jubilee onslaught against the opposition. Deputy President William Ruto is said to be headed to Kisii soon to discourage perceptions that Jubilee&rsquo;s fortunes have dwindled in the region.*****ODM party has been rocked by an explosive scandal involving a cartel of officials who have been soliciting millions from governors, ostensibly to facilitate NASA campaign meetings. The extortion ring, led by a senior party official, is said to have collected about Sh1 million from Kisii county government officials ahead of Wednesday&rsquo;s rally, but disappeared into thin air with it. They are said to have claimed that the money was meant to facilitate mobilisation of other leaders, including MPs, to attend the mega rally at Gusii Stadium. ODM governors have now been put on high alert against the rampaging cartel.*****A two-term MP from Central Kenya who lost the Jubilee Party primaries to his long-time rival is worried after a key parliamentary panel threw a spanner in the works. The powerful committee is said to have asked him to make alternative financial arrangements and clear his pending Sh10 million loan before August 7, a day to the General Election. The MP was overhead telling a colleague that he is likely to sell his bungalow in South B to clear the debt. &ldquo;I am in shock, because I did not expect to lose the nominations, do I really sell my house to repay this loan?&rdquo; the MP asked. He is among several lawmakers caught on the horns of such a dilemma.*****A cartel claiming to be in charge of President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s campaigns in Nyanza is on the loose. The smartly dressed political brokers have been fleecing business people in the region, claiming they have been instructed by State House to collect loyalties for campaigns. Is the state aware of these brokers on the rampage, extorting unsuspecting law-abiding Kenyans in the name of funding the Head of State&rsquo;s campaigns?