The deal by Vodafone &ndash;of the UK to transfer 35 of its 40 per cent stake in Safaricom to its sub-Saharan subsidiary will help expand M-Pesa to other African countries, it emerged yesterday. Vodafone &ndash; the owner of M-Pesa &ndash; announced it will offload the stake to Johannesburg-based Vodacom Group in exchange of 226.8 million new shares in a mega deal valued at about 34.6 billion rand (about Sh267.46 billion). The government, through the Treasury, will continue to hold a 35 per cent stake in Safaricom, with the remainder 25 per cent held by minority shareholders through the Nairobi Securities Exchange. &ldquo;The agreement Vodafone Group has reached with the Government of Kenya will ensure Safaricom continues to have strong Kenyan representation at board and management levels,&rdquo; Safaricom chief executive Bob Collumore said in a statement. He added that the deal &ldquo;promotes the continued successful expansion of the company as well as the opportunity to drive M-Pesa to other markets on the continent&rdquo;. The transaction will help Vodafone streamline and simplify the management of its sub-Saharan African holdings, Reuters reported. The deal, subject to approval from Vodacom Group&rsquo;s minority shareholders, will see Vodafone raise its shareholding in South African company to 69.6 per cent from the present 65 per cent. Vodacom, on the other hand, will control 87.5 per cent stake in Vodafone Kenya, giving it indirect control of 35 per cent interest in Safaricom. &ldquo;Obviously it&rsquo;s a big step in terms of commitment from Vodafone to Vodacom. Selling the asset to us does show that the assets are all under Vodacom,&rdquo; Vodacom&rsquo;s chief executive Shameel Joosub was quoted by Reuters following a conference call with reporters in Johannesburg. Besides South Africa, Vodacom operates in Tanzania, Mozambique, DRC and Lesotho. The giant telco also provide business services in most countries on the continent, including Nigeria, Ghana, Ivory Coast, Zambia, Cameroon and Angola. The agreement has been reached amid simmering debate over proposed separation of the globally successful M-Pesa from Safaricom. This was touched off in February following recommendations in a leaked draft report by UK consultancy, Analysys Mason, which was hired by the Communications Authority of Kenya in May 2016 to conduct a study on dominance among the mobile network providers.Legislator Jakoyo Midiwo (Gem) has also sponsored a bill in the National Assembly to split Safaricom&rsquo;s operations from M-Pesa.ICT CS Joe Mucheru has opposed the proposed split.Collymore said last week Safaricom continues to engage the CA over the recommendations by Analysys Mason. &ldquo;While Safaricom share&ndash;&ndash; in some segments remain high, we firmly believe this has been attained through prudence investment and continuous innovation, both of which are integral to our strategy,&rdquo; Collymore said on May 10. &ldquo;But for equitable growth in the sector, &ndash;we feel it is equally important that our competitors are held up to the same standards so that our policy of sustained investments is not penalised. Calls to split M-Pesa are ill-advised and ultimately will not be in the interest of customers, industry or economy.&rdquo; M-Pesa registered customers stood at 26.57 million at the end of March, 19.02 million of which were active on a monthly basis, Safaricom reported in full-year financial performance statement. Safaricom earned Sh55.08 billion from M-Pesa in the 12-month period, a growth of 32.72 per cent over Sh41.50 billion a year earlier.