South African anti-apartheid icon Nelson Mandela once said, &ldquo;If you talk to a man in a language he understands, that goes to his head. If you talk to him in his language, that goes to his heart.&rdquo;Flamboyant Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko talks to the people in their language.Ever since he made his debut in elective politics in 2010, following a successful by-election in Makadara constituency, Sonko&rsquo;s elevation in politics has been on a meteoric rise. Two years into his legislative career, he stood for the Nairobi Senate seat and amassed a gargantuan 808,705 votes, the highest number of votes garnered in a single contested seat in Kenya, after votes for President.Though his political brand has been freighted with allegations of hooliganism and mostly drug dealing, that has been overshadowed by his altruism and philanthropic ways. From numerous mobile clinics set up in slums to ambulance services, Sonko has endeared himself to the people of Nairobi and Kenyans at large. Everywhere he goes, Kenyans are gung-ho in his presence.In a country where tribe is the most divisive demography, and usually the path that leading politicians draw their clout from, Sonko stands above and beyond his contemporaries. He is easily the only politician whose popularity transcends the divisive demography of tribe in in Nairobi and in the country by extension. He doesn&rsquo;t have a tribal tag attached to him, and, in the long run, that will consecrate him from the rest as a unifying politician; a factor that is lacking in the current crop of presidential contenders.He might be labelled boorish, a reprobate and rough, but he has managed to fashion himself as a sort of a darling of the poor, the biggest demography in this country. He has over the years ingratiated himself to the masses with his work, and one effort that stands out was in November 2014, when he was the first MP to publicly condemn the stripping of a woman on the streets of Nairobi. He admonished the perpetrators of that ghastly act, and called for their prosecution. He lent his celebrity to the famous, &ldquo;My Dress My Choice&rdquo; demonstration that followed. He has made his services bigger than him such that if he exits the political stage, a vacuum will be left. He has made himself a staple in politics and people want to reward him with votes to keep him at their service.Let us not forget that in six years &mdash; two as Makadara MP and four as senator &mdash; Sonko has risen through the political hierarchy and many residents deify him and give him the reverence reserved for political heavyweights.If elected Nairobi governor on August 8 that will be a watershed in Kenya&rsquo;s politics because he has never played by the rules. Singlehandedly, he has created a groundswell of goodwill around his persona, both politically and publicly, and that will definitely make room for a future possibility of Sonko running for President. Besides, he has often indicated that he will one day run for that office, and it sure looks plausible that he might win.