Immediately NASA unveiled its Pentagon lineup on Thursday last week, State House reacted by pouring cold water on the initiative. Watching Manoah Esipisu, State House spokesman, read the statement was like listening to an announcement regarding when the President will visit a cattle dip in Murang&rsquo;a.The tone was low, the conviction was loud by its absence and the face was as cold as stone. Deputy President William Ruto&rsquo;s outburst was even less convincing. Full of sound and fury, but signifying nothing, he denounced the NASA leadership as greedy for power, only interested in themselves and not concerned at all about uniting Kenyans. Look who was talking! And who was fooling who?For those of us who have been students of electoral politics in Kenya since Independence, we distinguish between elections on the one hand, and electoral politics on the other. Electoral politics is the struggle over elections and the rules of the game, the controversies around elections, the arrangements that people make to win elections and the motives people harbour in their hearts regarding what they intend to do after the polls. The latter involves ideology and beliefs, what you can predict about their behaviour once the contenders have state power following their history and past behaviour. In this regard, politicians tend to build coalitions to win elections. But the kinds of coalitions forged and the purposes to which such coalitions are put after elections depend on the electoral politics certain political leaders engage in, obviously shaped by their interests in controlling state power.If truth be told, Uhuru and Ruto created the Jubilee coalition to win the 2013 elections to escape the hangman&rsquo;s noose at The Hague. The International Criminal Court was in hot pursuit of these two gentlemen accused of perpetrating the 2007-08 post-election violence. To avoid evidence coming to the fore, witnesses had disappeared, some recanted their testimonies and the Kenyan state itself refused to cooperate with the ICC. All this could only be done if they had state power. And state power they got, using money, propaganda and ethnic arithmetic, baptised as the &ldquo;Tyranny of Numbers&rdquo;.By the time of the elections in 2013, Uhuru had the money, Ruto had the tongue for propaganda and both could bring forth ethnic numbers. The promise was that Uhuru would run for two terms and Ruto would take over in 2022. That assumed that the people of Kenya would not change their minds, the electoral politics would remain the same and the Jubilee coalition would eventually soldier on without the ICC menace. Wrong assumptions altogether. And Ruto somehow had the instinct to be suspicious of Uhuru&rsquo;s subsequent manoeuvre once in state power. To build his own power base and introduce a new factor in Jubilee&rsquo;s electoral politics, he rejuvenated a major industry he has always believed is the basis of success in politics &mdash; money making.Uhuru had the money when Jubilee was created; Ruto was the popper. Within three years of Jubilee being in power, the Mount Kenya Mafia around President Uhuru became increasingly astounded how quickly the Deputy President was becoming a plutocrat of note, having a slice of the pie in almost every major state contract. And with what in mind? To call the shots in electoral politics; to be in the forefront of political manoeuvres inside Jubilee and to be the architect of the party as the &ldquo;mama na baba&rdquo;. Ruto proposed cobbling up the small political parties as allies and producing one monolithic Jubilee Alliance Party. This somehow backfired after JAP was formed, and Uhuru and Ruto got busy creating regional parties here and there, or reviving old ones and giving them new compliant leaders so as to accommodate those who fear marginalisation within JAP. This is where Governor Ukur Yatani&rsquo;s Frontier Alliance Party in Marsabit came in; Ababu Namwamba also dusted up the Labour Party of Kenya from the political dustbin and presented it at the JAP political stock exchange for a price as the new party leader with Ruto&rsquo;s backing. Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua, had, like a witchdoctor, brewed his Maendeleo Chap Chap over night, obviously a compliant partner and a welcome visitor at every Jubilee meal.I have no doubt that when NASA unveiled its Pentagon, the Jubilee leaders poured cold water on it more as sour grapes and not because of the reasons they gave. NASA had beaten them at the electoral politics of making a stabler, wider and more legitimate coalition in the Kenyan context. Why? From the narrative above, Jubilee has its own Pentagon comprising DP Ruto, President Uhuru, Mutua, Yatani, and Ababu. The last three must be subservient, eating at the table without knowing how the food is cooked, who chose from the menu nor who pays the bill. An earlier Pentagon where Charity Ngilu, Eugene Wamalwa and Aden Duale were members, cobbled up on the same principle, was spoilt when Ngilu sought to assert herself, claim her own territory and come to the dining table demanding a new recipe! The principle of being a member of the Jubilee Pentagon is to be &ldquo;a silent listener to every conversation.&rdquo; Very different from the NASA practice and experience.NASA has obviously outwitted Jubilee in forming the Pentagon. To accuse the leaders of being power-hungry in an election year is to say the obvious. Which politician goes to an election without the thirst to win political power? To accuse it of wanting to create political positions to share them is to assume that this is by itself a sin. It all depends how it is done, and with what end in mind. Just look at how Jubilee has shared state power in the civil service and the state-owned corporations: Does that represent the ethnic face of Kenya? Obviously not. As the late Anglican Archbishop Manasses Kuria once said, &ldquo;People are known by their names.&rdquo;Although both Jubilee and NASA have been involved in coalition building, their electoral politics are different. Jubilee has been focussed on weaving political power around two large ethnic communities assumed to provide Uhuru and Ruto with the Tyranny of Numbers to capture and keep state power. This seems not to have proved to be a stable and sustainable coalition after overcoming the ICC cases, and the siege mentality propaganda it generated to glue the Kikuyu and the Kalenjin masses together. Attempts to turn Jubilee into a single monolithic party immediately threatened it with contraction and not expansion. Hence the need to create satellite political parties outside it but compliant with it.NASA, however, has been born out of an expansive coalition, out to spread its political base and to legitimise itself not out of fear of anything but out to achieve the dreams of the 2010 Constitution, particularly devolution. In this regard, NASA has an internal legitimacy based on a cohort of leaders who have always been at the forefront of the Second Liberation. Key among these is NASA flagbearer Raila Odinga. NASA needs no satellite political surrogates: The doors have been open to those who could come in fighting for the main cause, and Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto&rsquo;s Chama Cha Mashinani finally came in to complete the Pentagon. The rest will now be unveiled by history, which is most likely to absolve me.