A Tanzanian driver decided to call on God when he found himself stuck in raging floodwaters.This is not unusual but his seven-minute prayer in the car submerged in water is more about the car than his safety.In a video clip of the horrifying incident, the man is heard praying for the vehicle not to be swept away and rebuking the devil for an episode that cannot match the storm Jesus calmed, as told in the Bible. "Kwa jina la Yesu... tunamkemea shetani...huna mamlaka kabisa. Huu ni utani wa shetani...hatachukua gari langu hata kidogo," he says."In Jesus name...we rebuke the devil...you do not have any authority. This is a joke by the devil...he will not take my car.)Some have criticised the man said to be a pastor for focusing on his vehicle while others have said his was a display of rare&nbsp; faith."Kwa&nbsp; jina la Yesu gari langu litasimama...kwa jina la Yesu nakemea mafuriko in Jesus name. You are not taking my car anywhere in&nbsp;Jesus&nbsp;name...hauna mamlaka ya kubeba gari langu," he continues. (In Jesus name, my car will not be swept away. I rebuke floods...you do not have the authority to take my carHe says the devil does not have the power to determine the fate of the car God gave him."Yesu hili&nbsp;gari ulinipa wewe tazama, bwana. Wewe ni mkuu sana (God, you gave me this car)," he said. "S hetani anajifanya ana nguvu lakini jina lako lina nguvu zaidi...Yesu Kristu wa Nazareth tunakutegemea wewe...Hili gari haliondoki hapa. Ni majaribu tu haya (The devil thinks he has strength but your name has more strength. Jesus Christ of Nazareth, we depend on you. This vehicle is not going to move from here...this is just a trial)." The car did not move in the seven-minute video in which the man praised God saying it would not be swept away. "Haleluhya Mungu, tunakuomba wewe...gari hili haliondoki...asante bwana kwa sababu mafuriko yanapungua...Mungu utusaidie (God, we pray that this vehicle stays put. Thank you before the floodwaters are residing. Help us, God)." The car was later pictured stuck in a shallow ditch after the waters subsided.