Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar has been handed the Wiper ticket to run for Mombasa governor.This came barely three days after Vibrant Democratic Party gave Nyali MP Hezron Awiti his. Incumbent Hassan Joho&rsquo;s was issued a month ago by ODM, though he was absent during the party&rsquo;s Bomas event.Only Jubilee&rsquo;s Suleiman Shahbal and Anania Mwaboza are yet to be issued theirs. Jubilee said the nomination certificate will be given out en masse this week.This sets the stage for a battle for the control of the county&rsquo;s billions of shillings and resources.Mombasa is Kenya&rsquo;s greatest GDP contributor. &ldquo;The journey to liberate our nation and revive the Kenyan dream beckons,&rdquo; Omar posted on his Facebook page, after he was issued with the certificate on Tuesday at Bomas of Kenya. &ldquo;With our economy in turmoil and the cost of living beyond the reach of millions of Kenyans, we must endeavour to ensure we pull together as one nation and one people.&rdquo;Omar was accused of employing underhand tactics to edge out Awiti, a claim he denies. Awiti&rsquo;s bolting from Wiper helped Omar get the direct ticket. They could have faced off in the primary. The Star has learnt that the four governor candidates are on the final touches to officially launch their bids. Millions of shillings will be splashed in the launch.An insider within Omar&rsquo;s camp said they have planned their bid launch before the end of the week, &ldquo;unless the senator decides otherwise&rdquo;.During the launch, Omar will unveil his running mate. A selection team of professionals and scholars worked overtime sourcing for Omar&rsquo;s potential candidate.Before the bid launch, all Mombasa Wiper aspirants will go for a retreat to look into how to implement Omar&rsquo;s plans for the county. &ldquo;The senator is the best candidate the county can have,&rdquo; Mathias Shipeta, the Jomvu MP candidat,e said. Omar&rsquo;s campaign secretariat is up and running. The senator has a massive online presence, courtesy of 10-20 bloggers who are part of his campaign team.