The party nominations ended with a note to all pessimists: Kenyan democracy, as messy and rudimentary as it may be, is alive, kicking and on an onward march.Perhaps kicking more than it is progressing, as the not-so-neat nominations became Breaking News for almost two weeks.Thanks to ODM and Jubilee, Kenya has the least assured checks and balances on the political front. A few small parties in Wiper, Ford Kenya and ANC will complete the assembly, with perhaps thousands of independent candidates who will be mostly the major parties&rsquo; collateral damage after the cruel hand of old politics interfered with the nominations.The fact that Kenyan internal party systems and democracy have chosen nominations as the most just and fair system to select candidates for general elections speaks volumes on democracy&rsquo;s march forward. There are a myriad of ways a party could select its candidates, including the tossing of a coin and such other methods of chance, as was the case in England before the enactment of the English Ballot Act in 1872. The widely used phenomenon up to now in some parties is candidacy by domination, where party bigwigs impose their will on the people.These nominations have provided the country with a sneak peek into the mind and feelings of the country. It is false to determine that the same factors worked everywhere unanimously as the host of candidates who emerged from the nominations represents sometimes diametrically opposed considerations. Yet not all the parties present the opportunity to read the minds and feelings of their members because in certain instances, the results counting and announcement have been so convoluted that nobody would know the will of the people anyway.ODM&rsquo;S &lsquo;STAGGERED&rsquo; NOMINATIONSThe single largest party up to now, ODM, started off the race with a new style in party primaries; staggered nominations. ODM spread its nominations across two weeks, perhaps in recognition of its limited capacity, or for the purposes of hogging the news entirely. It didn&rsquo;t disappoint on both counts. It also denied the country the opportunity of its entire internal democracy at work by issuing up to 850 direct nominations, being almost half the positions in the contest.ODM&rsquo;s most culpable actions, however, rest with the obfuscation of results in certain areas, with a whirlwind of dramatic actions after the vote that threw the dust into everyone&rsquo;s eyes, it is impossible to tell what the will of the people was. In Kisumu, Siaya, Migori, Homa Bay, Nairobi, Taita Taveta, Mombasa and Busia, it is impossible to discern the people&rsquo;s will. Yet this mischief has been done so well that, eventually, it is the party&rsquo;s word that will have to be the will of the people.And the party&rsquo;s word is, of course, a euphemism for Raila Odinga&rsquo;s whims and wishes. We may yet have to wait for August to accurately discern what the people in these regions have to say.The smaller parties &mdash; Ford Kenya, ANC and Wiper &mdash; were clever enough to avoid national public scrutiny and it is impossible to tell how their internal systems work and if there was any democracy to start with. Ford Kenya handed Trans Nzoia Governor Patrick Khaemba a direct nomination at the end, jettisoning the likes of Andrew Wanyonyi&rsquo;s ambitions to the kerb. In Wiper, no less a personage than party chairman David Musila came out wailing at the injustice within the party he heads while, in Machakos, Wavinya Ndeti was slammed by Maendeleo Chap Chap leader Alfred Mutua for sexing up her numbers in order to demonstrate she already had a majority of the total registered voters in the county. The nominations had already been stopped by a court order &mdash; but the attitude was &lsquo;the rule of law be damned&rsquo;.Jubilee has won praise across the board for a fairly just process. The embarrassment of the entire breakdown of its first day&rsquo;s machine for nominations would soon give way to a semblance of order and organisation when deputy party leader William Ruto took over the management of the process. JUBILEE&rsquo;S TIGHT SHIPFor Jubilee, it was extremely important they run a tight ship to avoid the mistakes of PNU in 2007, where a takeover of the nominations by the incumbents resulted in the party having only 44 elected MPs.As the incumbent, Jubilee needed to create the best possible process to guarantee a skeptical public that it is committed to free and fair elections. Had the hand of the party bosses been seen in obfuscating the will of the people, as it undoubtedly was in ODM, the ramifications would have been dire indeed.Jubilee&rsquo;s finest hour was its nominations appeals hearings, where Team Tuju appeared to genuinely weigh and consider before reaching a verdict.Jubilee adopted the staggered nomination process as well, after the hubris of the one-day bid fell down to earth. Under a new organisational structure, with some pundits pointing to the capacity of the Interior ministry taking a greater role in the process, the nominations seemed to have worked like clockwork and slowly the will of the people begun to emerge loud and clear. Giants fell and fallen giants arose. The Rift Valley&rsquo;s embrace of the party became explicit, where some had been hoping they would not show the same enthusiasm as their Central counterparts.A Meru that has previously been thought to be wayward demonstrated its belonging in JP and the new frontiers of Coast and Western showed some promise. The electoral map arising from the party&rsquo;s nominations is a critical tool in the party&rsquo;s strategy formulation. No other party can claim to have collected such significant information and intelligence from its nominations as Jubilee has.A lot is discernible from the Jubilee nominations in the kind of people that emerged winners from the process. The fall of Kiambu Governor William Kabogo and the nomination of Ferdinand Waititu was the loudest. A total of 420,000 people participated in the Kiambu nominations, a number that eclipses the entire population of several counties, sent Kabogo packing.Waititu, it seems, was the beneficiary of the people&rsquo;s angst with Kabogo, much less than he was popular. Kabogo&rsquo;s claim that certain people were bent on his downfall, two hours into the vote tallying process, is also a pointer to intense behind-the-scenes wars within those particularly eyeing the 2022 election.In Eldoret, the Rift Valley&rsquo;s equivalent to Kiambu, and the presupposed seat of power come 2022, didn&rsquo;t disappoint as well. A conflict within the region had become a rebellion and a host of renegades led by Governor Mandago went directly for the Deputy President as the culprit. They emerged victorious. The fall of the Deputy President&rsquo;s key men symbolised by Emmanuel Talam, his hitherto media liaison, pointed towards a pushback to interference from Nairobi. The people, it seems, are becoming fiercely defensive of their independence.The character of the nominees also reveals a little of what is going on with the people. Considerations have been anything but unanimous: In Murang&rsquo;a County, where the regional oligarchy had mounted a fierce challenge through Jamleck Kamau on the more rustic Mwangi wa Iria, it was gutted. Irungu Kang&rsquo;ata, a self-confessed Rastafarian, who campaigned around Murang&rsquo;a in a ragtag organisation, sent home the much-established Deputy Speaker of the Senate, Kembi Gitura. Both instances show a rejection of establishment control &mdash; and an embrace of the more basic and connected pedigree be damned.In Nyandarua, however, the opposite was true. The nomination of former Secretary to the Cabinet Francis Kimemia was odd in comparison to Kiambu and Murang&rsquo;a. A major pillar of the Kibaki regime and the quintessential representation of the entrenched bureaucrat, Kimemia&rsquo;s nomination was an almost logical decision by an electorate. The outgoing Governor Daniel Waithaka, a man of means himself, seemed hapless in the the face of the onslaught by the old establishment.In Kipipiri constituency, the nomination of Amos Kimunya for MP was yet again the rejection of the new and hapless for the old and tested. In nearby Naivasha, Jane Kihara, an old hand, came back with a bang.The story that might have the biggest ramifications for the Jubilee Party is Nairobi. The victory of the unabashed Senator Mike Sonko over the old and tested establishment candidate Peter Kenneth provides material for an entire undergraduate dissertation. It was a foregone conclusion in many circles that Sonko would give way for Kenneth in a consensus arrangement. The party in fact postponed the nominations twice to facilitate these talks. Nobody thought Sonko had what it takes to go to the end against the forces and might behind Kenneth. Yet he soldiered on and trounced Kenneth at the ballot without mercy. While many pundits have wanted to project Sonko&rsquo;s victory as a triumph of the poor over the well-to-do, a closer analysis destroys this lazy conclusion.Inasmuch as Sonko gets his support from both the Kamba and the Kikuyu, he is emerging as the first tribeless and classless politician of our times. He has never been seen or heard appealing to a tribal sentiment. At the Nairobi Primary School polling station, where the entire voting population is from the University of Nairobi, the next elites of the nation, Sonko beat Kenneth to a pulp in a contest one imagines these young elites would identify with the more professional Kenneth. Across the city, there is yet to emerge a single polling station where Kenneth beat Sonko, even in the most homogeneous Dagoretti South. To posit that it is the poor rather than the informal who participated in the nominations is pure bigotry. A squeezed professional class, a sidelined informal sector and a gambling youth population have all in some way settled on Sonko as their saving grace. At the Labour Day celebrations, a choreographed song meant to give an alternative acclamation ended up being an endorsement of Sonko for greater things. A group of dancers meant to introduce Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli sang the song Ni nani atakae komboa Kenya, and the crowd chanted Sonko! Sonko! Perhaps it is this sentiment that Kenyans still feel they still need Ukombozi that animated the whole nomination process. In many places, people voted out or for candidates that may have rejected a certain force or embraced the good old order.NAIROBI&rsquo;S SONKO FACTORIn Nairobi, there was an aspirational aspect to the nominations. Jubilee power better beware of Sonko.ODM has missed this grand opportunity to commune with its base. The issuance of direct nominations was principally the sale of the party franchise to the dominant in its echelons. It is not in doubt that Governor Hassan Joho has the ODM Mombasa franchise and it&rsquo;s futile to contest it. So does the Kakamega franchise belong to Governor Wycliffe Oparanya. By making itself the party of the dominant and of power, Raila&rsquo;s party has extended and outsourced his own style to the counties. This extension is again exclusively to incumbents and denies the party the litmus test before the big race.The political lifeline fallen candidates have received from going independent may yet prove to be a fatal mistake to their careers. As it is, the legality of this action needs to be contested. The law that barred party hopping can be interpreted to extend to barring anybody who participates in a party nomination from declaring himself independent. It is mischief of the highest order to declare yourself independent today while yesterday you participated in a party&rsquo;s most crucial activity of the electoral cycle. This action runs contrary to the intention of the drafters of the Constiotution and the Electoral law, and the mischief that was being addressed. Independent candidates should be only those that have not participated in any nominations process. The courts should be called to make this determination soon enough.Kenyans have partly spoken and their voices, where it was allowed, have come through. Where vested interests have interfered and caused an obfuscation of the will of the people, August 8 will not come soon enough.