Tribalism is the bane that impedes progress in this country. The ever qualifying demography and the most divisive is tribe, and has been perfected by the political class and indoctrinated to the masses by the establishment.Prevalent within is the misconception that if the incumbent comes from your communality or tribe, then it means development, and possibly wealth, will easily flow. That is far from the truth. Take for instance, President Daniel arap Moi, who ruled uninterrupted for 24 years but every time there is famine and/or drought, his home county is usually amongst the hardest-hit. Never mind he is a billionaire. Now with the pervasive scourge facing millions of Kenyans, 30,000 residents of Murang&rsquo;a county, mainly from Makuyu, Kamahuha, Maragua, Kiharu, Kambiti, Ithanga and Kakuzi are starving. This is according to county officials. More than 500 families have been receiving food donations in semi-arid areas. This is despite the fact that the ruling President originates from the same ethnic community. The establishment has always propagated that misconception of the incumbent to forestall accountability through ethnic inclusion, by creating a sense of ownership. Successive governments have remained unaccountable because, if challenged, ethnic passions are whipped up protect &ldquo;one of our own.&rdquo; During Barack Obama&rsquo;s eight-year administration, it is reported that women&rsquo;s rights flourished. From equal pay to equal work, to reproductive health rights and protection, the American woman saw a gain to equality. This is despite the country being led by a man. President Obama&rsquo;s policies were driven by his ideology, and never informed by his stand-out demography, hence his elevation to the most powerful seat as a minority in 2008.When our leaders resort to ethnic cocoons, it demonstrates a dearth of issues in their need to serve the public. During the recent 100-day doctors&rsquo; strike, Kenyans from all walks of life suffered and died due to the impasse between the health professionals on one side and the national and county governments on the other. The political class was ready to go for treatment in London, South Africa and/or the United States. They would never seek treatment in public health facilities even in their villages.The incumbents&rsquo; demography should not matter at all. What should be of concern is what issues the candidate wants to address. Policies, laws and regulations are what determine the posterity of our nation and its progress, never the demography represented at the top. Inclusivity should be determined by the fact that we all share a common destiny as Kenyans, and the existential threat from poverty, disease and ignorance should be what unites us and never against another person. The nature of humanity is that we are all different and unique from each other. With over 46 million Kenyans, 1.2 billion Africans and 7.5 billion people globally, surely we all cannot come from a singular demography. But we can get along because of one commonality &mdash; being a human. The idea of altruism.