Kenya Simbas have dropped three places down from 23rd to 26th in the latest World Rugby ranking released yesterday by World Rugby. The Simbas lost to Germany 30-29 over the weeklend at the RFUEA ground. The Simbas are now 26th down from 22nd with 57.89 points as Germany are up to 22nd spot on 59.78 points from 26th, matching their highest ever position after leaving it late to inflict a first home defeat on Kenya in nearly four years. The victory was worth 1.39 rating points to Germany, which is enough to lift them three places above their vanquished opponents, Canada and Portugal into 22nd place, a position they last achieved back in March.Kenya&rsquo;s next match is against Uganda on June 10 in the Elgon Cup in Kampala. World Rugby have approved the first leg clash and ranking points will be on offer. The second leg will be part of the Africa Gold Cup fixtures on June 24. The Simbas will then play Senegal, Tunisia, Zimbabwe and Namibia in July in the remaining fixtures.In August the Simbas will take on Hong Kong. Team manager, Wangila Simiyu, said they are monitoring injuries sustained over the weekend. Skipper Wilson Kopondo, hooker Peter Kaaria, flanker Eric Kerre and fly-half Biko Adema&mdash;all sustained injuries from the physical high scoring encounter. &ldquo;We have training session tomorrow (Wednesday) and we will evaluate the injuries and see if we need to make changes ahead of the Uganda game in a fortnight,&rdquo; added SimiyuElsewhere, Homeboyz RFC have signed flanker Dalmus Chituyi in an undisclosed deal from Nakuru RFC. Chituyi won two Kenya Cup, Enterprise Cup, East Africa Supremacy Cup and played for Uganda-based Pirates RFC between 2013 and 2014.He may be also selected to play in the national sevens circuit set to start in July, where Homeboyz are the defending champions.He was part of the Nakuru RFC side that won Kenya Cup in 2013 and 2014 and is expected to compete for places with the likes of Charles Otieno Jamandas, Polycarp Odhiambo, Elisha Okello and Keith Wasike.