Supporters of two Mvita MP aspirants clashed at the Jubilee headquarters in Mombasa yesterday.The party headquarters was a no-go zone. Police mounted barriers. Security was tight and those seeking access were frisked thoroughly. Mohamed Tenge and Omar Shalo confronted each other, both claiming they won the primaries. The party did not issue the nomination certificate.Tenge said he was declared the winner after filing a complaint at the party&rsquo;s appeals tribunal and another at the Milimani law courts. He said he won with 1,310 votes.Shalo had initially been announced the winner. Northern regional coordinator Aiden Mohamed said the certificate was not issued because it had &ldquo;issues&rdquo; and the name had been written wrongly. All other certificates for 30 MCA candidates, senator, woman representative, governor and five MPs were issued.Tenge said, &ldquo;I will know the next step to take depending on the outcome. But let them be warned, my victory will not be taken away.&rdquo;Mombasa Deputy Governor Hazel Katana, who had sought the Senate ticket, despite being floored during nominations, was unlucky. Abdulsalam Kassim got the ticket.Katana was not present as the certificate was issued. Insiders said Katana&rsquo;s loss would hurt Jubilee&rsquo;s efforts to win seats in the county.President Uhuru Kenyatta had poached Katana from Governor Hassan Joho&rsquo;s ODM camp.Katana was to convince residents to shift their support to Jubilee. She had accused Joho of frustrating her. Katana&rsquo;s loss during the primaries was unforeseen. Kassim said it is not uncommon for political races to be ugly.&ldquo;No fighter goes down easily. I&rsquo;m happy what Uhuru and [Deputy President Willaim] Ruto said has come to pass. There was no favourite,&rdquo; he said.Ashiraf Bayusuf was handed the Nyali MP ticket, while Masoud Mwahima scooped the Likoni pass.Others who were awarded tickets are Abdi Daib (Changamwe), Karisa Nzai (Jomvu) and Francis Lewa (Kisauni).Governor aspirant Suleiman Shahbal&rsquo;s running mate Ananiah Mwaboza said he is confident there will be no rigging. Shahbal said the elections board will resolve the impasse over the Mvita seat.