Kenyan workers will join the world today in marking the International Workers’ Day to commemorate the historic struggle of working people throughout the world. This year's Labour Day will be held at Uhuru Park, hosted by workers' umbrella union Cotu, headed by secretary general Francis Atwoli. President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to announce a workers' pay rise. While touring the United Aryan Company in Thika last month, he promised a salary increase for all workers to motivate them to produce quality products. The theme of today's celebrations is: 'Women, children and other vulnerable Kenyans appeal for peaceful and democratic elections.' Kenyan workers will gather at the historical grounds where the event has been held for decades for the speeches, mainly for the President's announcement on the much-awaited pay rise. Most of them turn up in purple for the occasion. During the event, entertainment also takes place, followed by all unions marching ahead, showcasing what they do in their various industries. Thousands of Kenyans, among them workers and even children, gather at Uhuru Park to witness the occasion, regardless of the weather. During this day, Cotu boss Francis Atwoli leads the workers as he represent thems locally and internationally.  TAX-FREE BONUSES During last year's celebrations, Atwoli lambasted employers for "misadvising" the government on how much employees should be paid. Atwoli said employers were insisting on paying workers based on productivity, when there was no formula in place to gauge it. It was a direct jab at the Federation of Kenya Employers (FKE) and the Kenya Private Sector Alliance (Kepsa), who say the economy was doing badly, despite annual minimum wage increments. He spoke shortly after FKE chief executive Jacqueline Mugo told a gathering attending Labour Day celebrations that Kenya needs to peg pay rise on each worker's deliverables. The Cotu boss further urged employers to stop outsourcing staff whenever they are employing. He said the business of outsourcing employees must stop. Atwoli said there is no job security at all for workers and urged the government to intervene and fight for the workers. He said every Kenyan is comfortable working on permanent and pensionable terms, as opposed to the outsourcing system. This year, Uhuru is advocating change. "For the last two years, we have not increased salaries for private sector workers. On Labour Day, we will press upon your employers to increase your salaries," he said amid applause from the factory workers. The President said the difficulties workers face will be fixed, further urging the private sector to do their bit. He also informed workers that the government has waived taxation on bonuses and overtime in this year's budget. "This is to ensure that you concentrate on your responsibilities of producing quality products which will, in turn, attract better markets." The sentiments came after Atwoli asked the government  on April 9 to ensure that rising costs of living are addressed. Atwoli said the President should ensure he addresses the needs of the workers before he asks for their votes. "We will show up for the Labour Day celebrations ready to receive what President Uhuru Kenyatta has for us, but he should know that we have problems. We will make our decisions depending on what we are offered," Atwoli said.  POLITICIANS EXPECTED Deputy secretary general Benson Okwaro commended Uhuru for calling for workers' salaries to be increased. "We are so excited that the President assured us of the salary increment and are eagerly waiting how much it will be, which he will announced this day. I think that will be a big announcement for the workers," Okwaro said. He said Cotu as a workers' representative had requested the government to consider the matter of the minimum wage increment to its workers. "We are happy that the head of state has complied and we expect him to give us something good on Monday during his speech," he said. He said Cotu invited the President and he confirmed he will be attending the celebrations at Uhuru Park. "We also expect the President to accompany us for lunch later after the function," Okwaro said. He said other guests who have confirmed attendance include Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero and several Cabinet Secretaries. "We have also invited all Ambassadors to Kenya and most have confirmed their attendance," Okwaro, who is also the secretary general of the Communication Workers' Union, said. He said this being an election year, many politicians will be present at the venue. Okwaro said Cotu as a host has made arrangements to ensure all are accommodated. He said the county has responded to the Cotu and traders' plea to tarmac Digo Road and unblock the drainage system around Gikomba market. A spot check by the Star yesterday confirmed that in deed, the construction work is ongoing. He said Kidero has assured Cotu and the traders that he will tarmac the road, which is likely to be ready in a month's time. "I think this will help us and also the traders, who have suffered for long in muddy roads," Okwaro said. This comes after Cotu boss Atwoli condemned the county for failing to honour the promise of tarmacking the road.  HISTORY OF LABOUR DAY May Day has long been a focal point for demonstrations by various communist, socialist and anarchist groups. The struggle for the eight-hour day began in the 1860’s. The Federation of Organised Trades and Labour Unions (Fotlu) of the US and Canada organised the first event in 1882. It later changed its name to the American Federation of Labour (AFL). The following year, the federation repeated the declaration that an eight-hour system was to go into effect on May 1, 1886. With workers being forced to work 10, 12, 14 hours a day, support for the eight-hour movement grew rapidly. Thousands of workers held unauthorised "Knights of Labour" a few months before May 1, 1986, where the federation was drawn into the struggle. Chicago was the main centre of the agitation for a shorter day. The anarchists were in the forefront of the Central Labor Union of Chicago, which consisted of 22 unions in 1886, among them the seven largest in the city. Simon Mogendi, an employee, said he is pleased with the President's proposal to increase workers' pay. "We are expecting the President to give some good news on this day. What he should also do is cut the salaries of the big fish, who earn a lot of cash." He said the President has a good will for Kenyans, that's why he recently announced the pay cut for elected members during this year's State of the Nation address. "In fact, the cut should be half of what they are earning. These people are so greedy for money, they forget to deliver what Kenyans voted for them to do," Mogendi said.  