The former Prime Minister&rsquo;s sentiments in a newspaper article on May 19 titled, &lsquo;Endorsement by DP Ruto inconsequential, says Raila&rsquo; are absurd. The value and weight of an endorsement by a national figure such as the Deputy President cannot be overemphasised, especially in county politics.It was imprudent of Raila Odinga to make such remarks, which may influence voter perception.Raila has had four-and-a-half years to demonstrate leadership in the major counties &mdash; Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu &mdash; which are under ODM&rsquo;s leadership. These three counties have failed the country and mocked devolution. What we have seen is utter failure in resource management and theft of public resources.Raila claimed that the national government has failed to remit more than Sh50 billion to the county. This misleading statement neglects to denote that out of the stated amount, approximately Sh46 billion accounts for disputed land in Embakasi.The Defence Forces currently occupy the land in question. During my tenure as Town Clerk, I forwarded the matter to the courts with the objective of either reclaiming and reinstating the land to the county or gaining fair compensation. The matter is pending at court.Raila claims the national government has retained funds meant for devolution. Instead, he should demand accountability from his governor, who needs to demonstrate how he has utilised approximately Sh60 billion remitted for four years.Raila said Jubilee&rsquo;s top leadership pressured Senator Mike Sonko into picking Polycarp Igathe as his running mate. The internal workings of Jubilee&rsquo;s politics should have no bearing on ODM&rsquo;s politics.The choice of Igathe serves to bolster service delivery. These speculative conspiracies only serve to detract from the questionable performance of Nairobi under his party&rsquo;s leadership.Raila stated that Nairobians will give Governor Evans Kidero a second term to &ldquo;finish projects.&rdquo; Voters should critically examine the delivery of the current administration. Kidero&rsquo;s administration has delivered few, if any, of its campaign manifesto promises.His administration disregarded strategies and projects my administration had laid out. We had laid a solid foundation for the Urban Renewal Project, asset management, ICT and financial management strategy, solid waste management with Jica, Integrated Mass Bus System with the World Bank, and the Physical Address System, yet the administration failed at the simple task of execution.In 2013, Kidero presented a fraudulent campaign bid based on his &ldquo;success&rdquo; at Mumias Sugar Company. News broke in 2015 of the Mumias troubles, which resulted in a government bailout of Sh2.3 billion.It would be imperative for the national government to pump in another Sh5 billion to prevent the factory&rsquo;s collapse ,since its foreclosure will affect over 100,000 families. Kidero&rsquo;s two failed performances as Mumias CEO and first-term governor should be indicators to Nairobians.Kidero alleges that ODM will clinch Nairobi on 1.5 million voters, who will deliver 13 MP seats and 53 MCAs. Regrettably, Kenyan politics is tribal-based and only 10 per cent of the voters will vote based on manifestos and vision.Regionally, the vote blocs constitute Central ( 800,000 ), Luhya ( 450,000 ), Luo ( 350,000 ) and Kamba ( 200,000 ) . It is highly improbable that ODM will win Nairobi, taking into account that the 10 per cent (middle class) are unlikely to vote for Kidero, compounded by his disjointed relationship with the common mwananchi and poor performance.Kidero makes unfounded claims of &ldquo;signed deals&rdquo; to the tune of Sh600 billion that do not attest to actual delivery on his manifesto. His notion of &ldquo;deals&rdquo; is rather questionable since the Sh600 billion caters to one project, ie the renewal project.Consequently, this false impression of negotiated deals is a ploy that serves to create an inflated sense of the administration&rsquo;s &ldquo;outstanding&rdquo; performance in a bid to convince voters to reelect Kidero&rsquo;s failing administration.I wish to remind him that when my administration conceptualised the project 'Eastland Urban Renewal', we envisioned building a city established on the Pretoria model rather than just building houses and &ldquo;signing deals.&rdquo;Lastly, I invalidate Raila&rsquo;s remark, jogoo la shamba haliwiki mjini, on the DP's endorsement of Sonko. Administration and leadership is not predestined on locality, but rather postulated on capability, competence and qualification. Furthermore, I wish to remind him that he too has village roots and as such, his notion cannot be the basis of providing services for the people of Nairobi.Philip Kisia was the last Town Clerk and CEO of the City of Nairobi.