Badminton Kenya have been cleared to take part in the eagerly awaited National Olympic Committee of Kenya elections by the Centre for Multi Party Democracy. The bone of contention arose last week with two factions led by Anna Njambi and Peter Muchiri Kamau respectively presenting papers with each purporting to lead the association. Following the ruling and careful examination of the papers, CMD decided to grant the Njambi-led office the nod to participate in the elections as the representative of Badminton Kenya. CMD added that Badminton Kenya are affiliated and recognised by Nock and have been participating in their activities. According to the ruling by CMD, the federation participated in the debate and passing of the Nock Kenya Constitution in March and have been able to produce minutes for various meetings with Muchiri in attendance and they are affiliated to the Badminton World Federation The CMD wondered how the Registrar of Sports, Rose Wasike, issued the interim certificate on March 24, 2017 to Muchiri when she had indicated in her letter that she was analysing the application. CMD ruled that, Muchiri in his own admission, revealed his federation is newly registered and has not been admitted to Nock. He didn’t also have a list of members and had no evidence of either elections or nomination to the office, and no copy of the constitution. Further, Muchiri had no evidence of affiliation to the international federation. The two groups were summoned by Nock elections board and requested to make presentations in a bid to verify who votes and who are the candidates. Another interested party, Geoffrey Shigholi threw the spanner in the works by purporting to lead a faction that is allied to Badminton World Federation. In his affidavit, Shigoli alleged his group picked and prepared teams for international assignments. Muchiri on his part, claimed he was a member of the faction led Njambi until early 2017 when he went to the office of Registrar of Sports. He said he inquired on the registration status of Badminton Kenya and was told there is no organisation registered by that name. Muchiri then made an application and was granted an interim certificate on March 21, 2017 Sources have also revealed that Cycling Kenya and Taekwondo have not been cleared for the Nock elections. Kenya Swimming Federation have been summoned by CMD to argue their case ahead of polls on Friday.