Cash-strapped Mumias Sugar Company plans to overhaul top management to speed up recovery process, board chairman Ken Mulwa said yesterday.Mulwa said the changes will rid the company of non-performing staff and improve efficiency. &ldquo;Anyone who is not performing will not stay here because we are focused on sustainability and delivery. We are in a very dire situation and we must perform and deliver to achieve our goals,&rdquo; he said. Mulwa said that the new CEO being recruited to replace outgoing Errol Johnson, whose two-year contract ends in August, will be given targets to meet as part of the stringent conditions to ensure performance. Mulwa termed reports that the company was set to close down indefinitely as untrue and misleading. &ldquo;We cannot be recruiting a new CEO when we are closing. We are out of crop and maintenance period, and will get back to operations when the crop matures,&rdquo; he said. Mulwa said that Mumias has all the structures and systems, but proper management is what is lacking. &ldquo;Mumias is one of the biggest institutions with good machines in Kenya and once we work on cane development aspects, I am sure the company will still work,&rdquo; he said. Mulwa spoke during a consultative meeting with the company workers in Mumias yesterday. Mumias East MP Ben Washiali also attended the meeting. Mulwa said that the meeting was to discuss management policy issues with the workers on how to manage the organization better and not to announce closure of the company. He said that part of the challenges facing the company was a big disconnect between the management and the low cadre staff. The workers said that the planned changes must be professional and humane. The workers said that they expected a lot when the new management under Johnson arrived at the factory, but nothing had happened. The workers said that they were ready and willing to get paid and laid off to create lean departmental structures. They asked the company to do away with some of the many titles that existed when the company was doing well. He said that Tana River project was a historical project by the previous management. It was meant to enhance cane development that never took place. The workers are owed two months&rsquo;&rsquo; salary by the company.