Leaders and citizens across the political divide have been told to ensure the country&rsquo;s stability is maintained before and after the August 8 polls, regardless of the winner.President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto yesterday during the 15th annual National Prayer meeting in Nairobi said they are confident and committed to a free and fair election.Citizens and leaders were asked to preach peace and unity. &ldquo;We have no other country but Kenya. Regardless of who wins this nation must and will endure. We need to walk the journey of peace, love and unity to be able to exercise our free and democratic right to choose our leaders,&rdquo; Uhuru said.He called on citizens to remain united regardless of their ethnic diversity &ldquo;as is God&rsquo;s plan&rdquo;. &ldquo;Let us work together to today&rsquo;s theme - Love, Peace and Unity to preach peace and unity for Kenya that would be here for very long after many of us are gone. We need to recognise that we need to work towards that,&rdquo; he said.Uhuru&rsquo;s sentiments come just two months to the General Elections as he seeks to defend his seat against NASA flagbearer Raila Odinga.Raila and the other NASA co-principals - Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Senator Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula (Ford Kenya), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Governor Isaac Rutto (Chama Cha Mashinani) did not attend the prayer meeting. Ruto expressed confidence the upcoming polls will be peaceful, credible and &ldquo;better than before&rdquo;.&ldquo;We believe that as a people, no weapon fashioned against us will prosper. Whoever will be elected in this elections will be Kenyan and our brother. That is the message that has come to me this morning. We are going into the elections less divided. I am confident that campaigns will dwell on issues,&rdquo; he said.Uhuru said immense progress has been made since Independence, including achievements realised during his tenure and told off his critics for lacking gratitude. &ldquo;Some of us can only see what is wrong with Kenya, not what is right. Regrettable, but all too true. They cannot see the advances we have made nor will they give thanks for the achievements,&rdquo; he said.