Deputy President William Ruto has asked Jubilee aspirants to resist temptation from opposition leaders who engage them in political theatrics. He urged the party members to instead focus on selling Jubilee’s transformation agenda ahead of the August 8 poll. Ruto asked the aspirants from Bomet and Nyandarua counties to take advantage of Jubilee’s track record in their campaigns. "This will you stand tall against our opponents who have no plan." He told the aspirants at his Karen home on Friday that Kenyans are an elite lot that will vote for leaders who have a plan to transform the country. "Let us speak boldly about the Jubilee plan. We have a practical and superior agenda to that of our competitors," Ruto said. He reiterated that the agenda of the ruling part is what is more important to the people. Boment Governor aspirant Joyce Laboso, MPs aspirant  Andrew Langat (Senator Bomet County), Joyce Korir (Bomet
County), Beatrice Kones (Bomet East), Dominc Kosgei (Sotik), Brigthon
Yegon (Konoin), Paul Bii (Chepalungu) and Ronald Tanui (Bomet Central) attended the meeting. All the nominees for MCA seats were also present. Francis Kimemia let the Nyandarua aspirants including his running mate Cecelia Mbuthia, MP hopefuls  Jeremia Kioni (Ndaragwa) Kwenya Thuku (Kinangop), Michael
Muchira (Ol-Joro Orok) Amos Kimunya (Kipipiri), Daviid Kiharao
(Olkalou), Mwangi Githiomi (Senator) and MCA
aspirants. The DP expressed confidence that Jubilee Party will win the presidential election. "You must ensure that you spearhead our agenda. We want to win the presidential election by a landslide in a way the opposition will have no option but accept the results," he said. Ruto said the party is working hard to ensure that it wins the election by a margin that will leave the NASA brigade ashamed to organise demonstrations or take them to court. He, however, cautioned the aspirants to avoid concentrating their energy on the 2022 politics at the expense of campaigns for the coming polls. Also read: Jubilee Mt Kenya nominees draw up plan to tame independents     