Lamu residents whose land was acquired for construction of the county headquarters in Mokowe will not be compensated, Governor Issa Timamy has said. They will only be paid for the crops and trees that were uprooted from their land at the time of acquisition. Timamy spoke in Lamu on Wednesday. He said the land, which is approximately 22 acres, had already been set aside for construction of the headquarters by the former municipal council, even before the county government took over. Even then, the farmers would have to wait until next year to be considered for compensation. The county government of Lamu has already moved its headquarters from the Lamu Island to the new Mokowe offices, following completion of the Sh220 million premises. The building has been under construction for two years. Timamy said they recently discovered that records for the defunct municipal council had long before allocated the land for the county headquarters and as such, they would not pay for it. He asked residents to stop crying foul and blaming the county government on the matter, saying there was no injustice. Timamy, however, pledged to ensure the new budget allocation for 2017-18 sets aside some funds to compensate for the crops and trees that were destroyed. “We have people claiming that the land housing the county headquarters belongs to them. We will therefore only pay for the crops and trees, which were on the land when we acquired it,” he said. The governor, however, warned they would only receive a small amount of money for the crops and trees. “We will just give them something small and people shouldn’t therefore expect an amount such as that given for land acquired for the Lamu Port-South Sudan-Ethiopia-Transport project or the coal plant,” Timamy said. The new headquarters has offices for the governor and his seven county executives. Last month, Timamy said there are plans to expand the offices in future so that all relevant offices are under one roof. People with disability can easily access the offices, he said. Timamy said the objective was to have all services at a central location, where they can be easily accessed by all as opposed to the previous situation where county offices were scattered in various buildings in Lamu town. Since 2013 the county government has had to rent offices in Lamu town to house the executives. Timamy said the completion of the headquarters will help cut costs and save the rent money for development.  heavy rains Meanwhile, transport on the Lamu-Mombasa route has been hampered by the ongoing heavy rains. Several vehicle and motorcycle accidents have also been reported since the onset of the rains early this week. Drivers and travellers have urged the government to speed up repair of the road to reduce the problems they face. They said the road has been in a poor state for decades and the heavy downpour only made matters worse. Miraa traders have also complained the situation is delaying their product from arriving to the market. “Miraa is perishable and that’s why we need to arrive faster when ferrying the produce,” miraa transporter Suleiman Athman said.