Miss Lang&rsquo;ata Women&rsquo;s Prison beauty queen feigned injuries to cover up the 22 stab wounds she inflicted on her boyfriend, the High Court heard yesterday.Ruth Kamande, 20, is on trial for the murder of Farid Mohammed, 24, on September 20, 2015. She is believed to have turned the murder weapon, a kitchen knife, on herself, slightly injuring her abdomen before police arrived.Prosecution witness Hezron Otieno, a police officer attached to Buru Buru police station, told justice Jessie Lessit that the accused stabbed herself.The officer said Kamande had &ldquo;slight injuries&rdquo;. He saw Kamande shortly after she had accosted her boyfriend. His body was on the edge of his bed. &ldquo;She said she had been stabbed by the deceased,&rdquo; Otieno said. The officer said Mohammed may not have attacked Kamande after all.&ldquo;Witnesses saw her holding the blood-stained knife. She refused to open the door when the landlord told her to do so, and only opened later when police ordered her to surrender,&rdquo; Otieno said.Among the exhibits retrieved at the scene was a card sent to Mohammed from his other girlfriend in the US, a damaged mobile phone handset and the murder weapon. Otieno said the US girlfriend was well known to one of Mohammed&rsquo;s sisters, who confirmed the card had been sent from her. The landlord said Kamande had locked the door from inside.Ndwiga Gatumo said he heard a man crying out for help in Swahili, saying, &ldquo;Nisaidie! Nisaidie amenidunga&rdquo;( &ldquo;Help! Help! She has stabbed me&rdquo;).&ldquo;I recognised the voice as that of my tenant,&rdquo; he said.Another police officer, Joseph Otieno, who was at the scene shortly after the stabbing, said he found Mohammed dead.&ldquo;Kamande had a lot of blood all over her clothes. There was also a fresh blood trail from the sitting room which we followed to the bedroom,&rdquo; Otieno said. In earlier testimonies, the court was told Kamande had fits of rage a day before she allegedly killed Mohammed. The hearing was adjourned until June 13.