President Uhuru Kenyatta has won the election! The whole country is in a jovial mood, and Kenyans are united behind a common purpose -celebrating this win. As the President makes his inaugural address after being sworn in, he credits his win to thousands of Jubilee aspirants and candidates who supported his presidential campaign, after the free and fair primaries.This would be the perfect script after August 8, but it can only be attained if all Jubilee aspirants and candidates unite behind the party leaders.The Jubilee nominations were competitive, and a new crop of leaders has emerged. This is in sharp contrast to the ODM nominations, where aspirants who won legitimately were denied certificates, and selected leaders declared the winners. In many instances, multiple sets of results were announced.Unlike Jubilee, which has been spreading its wings across the country, ODM is only conducting primaries in its strongholds. Even before the process began, ODM had given out 500 direct tickets in key areas.Jubilee has carried out primaries in 45 of the 47 counties, in 21,000 polling stations and employing nearly 70,000 personnel. Other than state security being present to ensure the process was orderly, there was no use of state resources &mdash; the more than 8,000 aspirants contributed close to Sh900 million in party nomination fees.Jubilee has attracted aspirants and voters since September last year when it launched at Kasarani. The stadium was filled to capacity by nearly 10,000 delegates from 12 parties that folded into the Jubilee Party.This has made JP the political outfit of choice as witnessed in the primaries, which attracted as many numbers as during the general election. The party also attracted the largest number of aspirants &mdash; close to 10,000.NASA doesn&rsquo;t have a secretariat or officials, unlike Narc in 2002, which had its headquarters at Mwenge House. It brought the joint opposition together and floored Kanu with a 61 per cent win.The primaries faced hitches that forced JP to cancel the first round, but commentators and the media have sought to portray them as chaotic and failed. Jubilee learnt from the hitches and its second round was praised by both its supporters and NASA&rsquo;s.Anyone who is honest enough will tell you that it is only Jubilee that has shown growth since the early days of multi-party democracy. Jubilee must therefore be credited for its attempt to create a party base using merged party lists and online and SMS recruitment.Also commendable is the crisp manner that Jubilee disseminated its party primary information and results through a well set up media centre, and a visible National Elections Board not crowded by party functionaries and officials.It is not by accident that the media camped at Jubilee headquarters for a week with live broadcasting vans. It is because this was the only show in town where they were assured of constant updates.The thousands of online hits on the Jubilee election landing sites, websites and Facebook page only confirm the public only had results from the party to refer to. The other parties, especially ODM, had stage-managed and shambolic elections with more chaos than results.