Theresa May has revealed her heartbreak at not being able to have children admitting tonight 'it's been very sad'.The Prime Minister gave a deeply personal interview to LBC Radio ahead of a call in from listeners.May revealed the importance of her Christian faith through her life and said husband Philip had been her 'rock' since losing her parents in her 20s.The Tory leader said she had spent her life following her father's guidance that 'whatever job you are doing, get on with it and give of your best'.Answering calls from radio listeners, Mrs May was grilled on the challenges facing new parents returning to work, pressures on the NHS, the prospect of higher taxes and her own failures as a negotiator.She also faced questions on Brexit, immigration and the state of Britain's armed forces. Interviewer Nick Ferrari began the 30-minute interview with a probing of Mrs May's character, picking up on her remarks made alongside Philip on Tuesday night's One Show about having children.The couple revealed they had been subject of 'fake news' when a paper mistakenly said she was pregnant, to the disappointment of her mother in law.Asked how she might have been different if she had children, May said tonight: "I think it's impossible to answer the question about how I would have been."It's been very sad - it just turned out not to be possible for us. We're not the only couple who find themselves in that situation."When you do, I suppose you just get on with life. We have nephews and nieces." Ferrari questioned May about what she had learned about public service from her father, who was a vicar.She replied:"First of all was to have trust in people. He was very clear you should always take people as you find them and not have preconceptions about people."That's about trusting people. Putting the Brexit vote into place and delivering on it is about trusting the view of the British people - I feel that very strongly."A lot of trust in politicians has worn out over the years and we need to restore that. Delivering on Brexit is a part of restoring that trust."She added: "The other thing my father taught me was whatever you are doing, work hard at it and give of your best."That's what I intend to do."Ferrari revealed he had lost his own father aged 22, similar to the age of Mrs May who was 25 when her father died. Her mother died shortly after.Discussing the impact of the losses, May said: "It did have quite an impact. I had been married not that long before and Philip's been a fantastic support, he was my rock at that time."I was an only child so I didn't have brothers and sisters I could share it with. Suddenly there I was without the two people who had brought me up and who meant so much to me throughout my life. i think part of that impact was reinforcing the belief in public service I had learned from my parents."Of her faith, the PM added: "It's difficult to explain in simple words... actually the faith was there and did offer support through those difficult times."So it's also about the lesson I learned from my parents again - whatever circumstances you're in, get on and do your best, get on with life, things happen."Sometimes people face horrendous changes in their life and horrendous, far beyond what we are talking about with me."May said her faith helped her as PM to appreciate people come in 'all shapes and sizes'.Turning to policy, May was challenged to explain what she would do if re-elected to help mums back into work with childcare.The PM explained details of the 30-hour a week offer for three and four year olds and spelt out increases to the personal income tax allowance since 2010.But she was by caller Sophia there was still a 'gap' in provision for one and two year olds. Sophia said &pound;700 a month on child care took up two thirds of her wages.May replied: "I recognise this is, what Sophia describes, is exactly the sort of situation that a lot of people find themselves in. They need the two incomes to cover the expenses and this does pose problems."That is why we want to ensure that we have got those opportunities there."May was unable to promise her government would not raise taxes for a whole five year term, instead repeating campaign lines about the Tory 'instinct' for low taxes.The Prime Minister defended her Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt against charges he had 'demoralised' the health service, insisting he had done a 'very good job of ensure what we need to focus on is actually the quality of care for patients'.May cited her own treatment for type-1 diabetes as she praised the hard work of NHS staff, insisting 'I am fortunate in the care that I get'.