The Kenya Revenue Authority plans to enhance partnerships with third parties in a bid to increase compliance levels in the largely lucrative real estate sector. The taxman said that tax compliance in the sector continues to be low despite increased growth and development. &ldquo;The real estate sector in Kenya has witnessed tremendous growth in recent years. Despite this significant growth, tax revenue from this sector has not been commensurate with that growth,&rdquo; KRA deputy commissioner for domestic taxes department James Ojee said. Speaking at a sensitisation forum on rental income and capital gains tax, Ojee said the authority was working with the Kenya Power, Kenya Bankers Association, Ministry of Land, county governments and other institutions to obtain basic information on tax defaulters.&ldquo;By interfacing with their databases, we get a lot of information and are able to pick the Kenyans that are absent in our database,&rdquo; Ojee said.He said that moving ahead, these partnerships driven by automation were key in helping the tax agency meet ambitious tax targets set by the National Treasury. The partnerships, he said, would enable the KRA pin-point non-compliant taxpayers in the real estate sector.&ldquo;This will enable a KRA officer to make inquiries in the specific non-compliance area, moving away from the deep sea fishing to more focused targeting. This is why automation is critical,&rdquo; Ojee said. He said, following KRA&rsquo;s aggressive approach in tracking landlords evading tax after the one-year amnesty that ended in June 30 2016, the taxman has registered 40,000 new landlords with an estimated Sh10 billion worth in revenues. This, he said, is out of an estimated 100,000 landlords, 80 per cent of which are in Nairobi. The KRA capital gains tax manager Margaret Ogega said the compliance rate was also quite low. &ldquo;In the last financial year ( 2015-16 ), we were able to collect Sh3.8 billion against a target of Sh6 billion. This financial year, we have only collected Sh2.3 billion against the same target,&rdquo; Ogega said. She said the taxman intends to fill the gap by putting more emphasis on third-party information. This will be done through liaison with the Ministry of Lands to obtain information on land transfers and, through the Competition Authority of Kenya and Registrar of Companies to get firms registered for purposes of transferring property that had not paid CGT.