If Richard Branson, Steve Jobs, and Michael Dell (he of Dell Computers) had been born and raised in Kenya, and stayed here, none of them would have amounted to much. This is because they never got university degrees and therefore no Kenyan would have listened to a single thing he&rsquo;d have had to say. Not even Moses, if he had been Kenyan, would have convinced Kenyans to follow him anywhere, least of all over barren yonder. Never mind that he was speaking god&rsquo;s honest truth, that he didn&rsquo;t possess a degree would have guaranteed him zero Kenyan followers. I call it the degree craze, which is to say that in Kenya if you have a piece of paper that says degree and it has your name on it, people get wildly excited and consider you a sage. In such high regard are university degrees held in Kenya that people without them look upon with reverence at those with degrees. And if it&rsquo;s a Master&rsquo;s or a PhD, then the revering goes a notch higher to &ldquo;we&rsquo;re not worthy to lay hands upon thy robe, oh holder of degree.&rdquo;One shouldn&rsquo;t be too rush to judge this treatment of degrees as though they were the lost scrolls of Alexandria; it is simply a hangover from our colonial days. Back then, only a small handful of Africans had a degree, which they had to go out of the colony to get. Both the flying and getting a degree was such an exceptionally big deal because for everyone else, the colonial policy was to educate Africans with just enough basic knowledge to provide cheap, semi-educated labour for the colonial government, and the settler community. It was not until May of 1964 that University College Nairobi (now Nairobi University), started preparing students for degrees.That was then, today you can get a degree from any one of the universities scattered all over the country, spread across Nairobi city, and you can get a degree from an online university. And if you&rsquo;re the type that can&rsquo;t be bothered with coursework, you can even have a degree manufactured in downtown Nairobi. Degree papers are not as rare as they used be, the problem is we take them at face value, with no scrutiny going into substance. A degree is a free pass to say the most ridiculous things and never be called out on it, especially not by non-degree holders. With it you can get a job, secure in the knowledge that not a day will come that you&rsquo;ll be tested or asked to prove yourself &ndash; which works out just fine for those who have theirs made in River Road. It is this blind faith in degrees, the piece of paper, that has made us a society that does not demand and expect critical and intensive thought from our degree holders at every juncture of their lives. What&rsquo;s far worse is that we then cover our ears to minds with ideas but no degrees.No wonder then that ours is a society with a serious and noticeable absence of innovative, original, and independent thought. We are not a society of ideas. Is this because we only pay attention to degrees and not minds?College isn&rsquo;t the place you go for ideas &ndash; Hellen Keller (1880-1968).Ideas come from everywhere; from minds with degrees, and minds without degrees, but minds.