Meru woman rep Florence Kajuju has said she can politically stand on her own in defending her seat in the August polls.Kajuju spoke to reporters on Sunday at Annex Conference Hall in Makutano, North Imenti, where he handed over Uwezo Fund cheque."I heard that there are people saying they will not support anyone for the woman representative seat. I am telling them that is not a problem to me because I am looking for my own votes. I cannot rely on other politicians to campaign for me because they have to look for their own votes," she said The MP said she is confident she will trounce her rivals."In 2013, I was a political novice and without anybody's support, I managed to clinch the seat after beating my rival by 94,000 votes. I am not afraid and I don;t need support from anyone," Kajuju said. Kajuju said she will, however, campaign for President Uhuru Kenyatta in Meru.Kajuju garnered 131,349 votes against her rival Kawira Mwangaza&rsquo;s 119,246 in the Jubilee nominations.Mwangaza protested, saying the results were unfair.&ldquo;We went round many polling stations and the number of votes exceeded the number of registered voters,&rdquo; she said.Mwangaza, who owns Baite TV, has said she will run as an independent candidate.Apart from Mwangaza the incumbent will also face off with PNU aspirant Elizabeth Kailemia.Earlier this month Meru Governor Peter Munya said he warned the woman representative aspirant against decamping from his political outfit to Jubilee ahead of nominations.Munya said he pleaded with Kawira Mwangaza to stick with PNU but she refused. Mwangaza quit PNU and was received by Deputy President William Ruto. &ldquo;We saw it coming and that is why we decamped as we knew the party primaries would be unfair,&rdquo; he said.The Meru governor said Mwangaza has learnt her lesson the hard way.Munya wanted Mwangaza to run for the woman representative post on the PNU ticket. He told county Water executive Mary Mwiti to step down from the race for Mwangaza. After Mwangaza&rsquo;s exit, Munya replaced her with Elizabeth Kailemia. The governor is supporting Kailemia&rsquo;s bid and even introduces her during rallies. She was in Jubilee before decamping to PNU ahead of the primaries.Last week Meru Senator Kiraitu Murungi said he will not support any woman representative aspirant.He said if elected governor, he is ready to work with whoever wins. Kiraitu spoke during an interview on a vernacular radio station on Monday. Incumbent Florence Kajuju and Kawira Mwangaza are seeking the seat.Kiraitu said, &ldquo;They should stop dragging my name into their battles. I will not attend their meetings or mention them anywhere because they are tarnishing my name.&rdquo;Initially, Kiraitu was seen to support Kajuju. Kiraitu, Kajuju and Igembe South MP Mithika Linturi had formed the Kikali alliance - an acronym of their names.However, matters changed weeks to the Jubilee Party primaries when Mwangaza decamped from Meru Governor Peter Munya&rsquo;s PNU and joined Jubilee. She was received by Deputy President William Ruto.Mwangaza lost the JP primaries to Kajuju. Analysts say Mwangaza lost support after leaving PNU. Munya had urged the Water executive to shelve her ambitions in favour of Mwangaza.