Likoni residents on Friday forced DP William Ruto to address the maize crisis that has hit the country over the past few weeks. While addressing a rally at Caltex grounds, Ruto was shouted down by crowds chanting "unga". The DP blamed governors in the region for the crisis, saying agriculture is a devolved function. "Hatutaki watu wasema unga kumbe ni ile unga ingine," he said. "We do not want to hear people complaining about unga, and it is the drugs they are talking about." Ruto said the drug business at the Coast will not thrive. "Mambo ya hiyo unga ingine haina nafasi kwa Kenya hii. Wale matapeli wanadhani watauza unga kwa vijana wetu, chuma chao kimotoni." "The drug business does not have a place in Kenya. Those who think they can sell drugs to your youth, their days are numbered." Ruto said as a national government they have tried their best in supporting agriculture by importing subsidised fertiliser and issuing seeds to farmers countrywide. Read: Worry about prices of Unga and milk not defeating Raila, KOT tell Uhuru "Let me tell you the truth about the Unga issue. This is an interesting topic. Let me clarify because the Bible says that you will know the truth and the truth will set you free,” he said. “Kilifi County gets the fourth largest allocation of devolved funds amounting to more than Sh9 billion every year but the people cannot see what it has done,” the DP said. Ruto said there would be no hunger and lack of water in Kilifi if the Governor (Amason Kingi) had used the billions allocated to the county for the intended purposes. "However, they (counties) have failed and we have been forced, as the national government, to continue supporting agriculture by offering subsidised seeds and fertilisers to farmers," he said. “When the people mandated to ensure that we have enough food fail. Should we sit down as a national government and watch the ordinary citizen suffer? No we cannot do that.” Therefore, Ruto said, the government had to set aside Sh6 billlion for the importation of maize. "We are now surprised that they are busy criticizing us and asking why we bought maize from Mexico. Why didn’t we buy from South Africa?” posed the DP. “Is our agenda to ensure we bring down the cost of living or we start asking where the maize came from? Hawa watu ni bure kabisa (Those people are very useless),” Ruto said. Ruto and Uhuru were also confronted by a crowd chanting "unga" during a rally in Kilifi on Thursday. The government stepped in to subsidize maize flour amid sharp criticism on the legalities of importing maize from Mexico. GOK-branded 2kg packs will go for Sh90 and 1kg packs for about half the price. Spot checks in many supermarkets across the country show that buyers are only allowed to take three packets. In many instances, the subsidised flour is available for less than an hour before they are all bought out. More on this: State introduces GOK branded unga, 2kg pack to retail at Sh90