Credit and research agency Fitch ratings sees increased mergers and acquisitions among the small lenders if the rate cap is not reviewed. According to the agency, the bottom-tier lenders have experienced decreased earnings since the amended law was enforced last September as most of them largely depend on savings and deposits. &ldquo;The full impact on net interest margins and profitability will not be seen until later this year but the 2017 first quarter results have given a clear indication of reduced margins,&rdquo; Fitch said in a statement. &ldquo;We believe the large and medium-sized banks are better positioned to face these threats.&rdquo; Small banks are the hardest hit following the onset of interest controls as they previously relied on higher-return loans and sectors leading to a build up of non-performing loans. On the other hand, large banks are reportedly increasing volumes to corporate borrowers to address margin pressure. They are also said to be shifting into government securities, which offer attractive yields compared with loan interest rates.&ldquo;We expect lower retained earnings to feed through to capital, leading to modest pressure on regulatory ratios for large banks &ndash; which remain well capitalised,&rdquo; Fitch said. &ldquo;We expect the lending cap and the deposit floor to be revised rather than rescinded, although this is a political decision and unlikely before the August 2017 elections.&rdquo; Economists have warned the rate cap was likely to hurt this year&rsquo;s economic growth. Deputy President William Ruto, however, appeared to dash hopes for a review in an interview on Citizen TV on May 16: &ldquo;Our position is that the financial institutions we have in Kenya should cut down on their fat, they should cut down on their expenses (and) they should change their business model.&rdquo; He added: &ldquo;Yes there has been a slowdown partly maybe because there is expectation that there will be change of policy. But I am sorry. If that is what was being sought, that is not going to come any time soon.&rdquo; Treasury CS Henry Rotich and Central Bank governor Patrick Njoroge &ndash; who both had opposed the enactment of the rate cap &ndash; in March pledged to investigate the impact the amended law has had on borrowing.