Kenya Reinsurance Corporation has been ranked as the most attractive publicly traded insurance company from financial health and intrinsic value perspective in an annual analysis by Cytonn Investment. The report is based on industry&rsquo;s financial performance for 2016. In the report, the franchise score measures the broad and comprehensive business strength of the company and the intrinsic score measures the total return potential. The report shows that CIC Group dropped from top position in 2015 to rank fourth. Cytonn attributed this to poor return on average tangible equity, low levels of diversification and lower ability to absorb sudden large shocks owing to a high ratio of claims to shareholder&rsquo;s funds. Sanlam Kenya ranked last as a result of poor return on tangible equity, low solvency ratio, low underwriting leverage and high claims to shareholder&rsquo;s funds. On potential total return, Liberty Holdings and Britam Holdings held the first and second positions with total potential returns of 21.3 per cent and 20.8 per cent, respectively. Sanlam Kenya registered the lowest total potential return, with a potential downside of 14.9 per cent. &ldquo;Technology and innovation is a driving factor in the sector and thus we expect improved product innovation and operational efficiency to drive profitability and thus growth of the sector amidst the heightened regulation,&rdquo; Cytonn chief investment officer Elizabeth Nkukuu said. The report shows that the insurance sector will largely be driven by adoption of risk-based supervision framework to reduce high expense levels which are pushing the core insurance business into losses as well as product innovation. &ldquo;Following the adoption of a risk based framework, the sector is set to experience an increase in mergers and acquisitions mainly targeting small and weaker insurance companies in the Insurance sector in Kenya,&rdquo; Cytonn investment manager Maurice Oduor said. He said that product innovation targeting specific sectors is expected to gather pace mainly in sectors such as oil exploration and mining activities. Insurance regulatory Authority report for the fourth quarter 2016 indicated that loss from underwriting business increased to Sh390.84 million from Sh69.97 million the year before. During the period gross premium income in the life assurance grew by 19.3 per cent from Sh61.24 billion in 2015 to Sh73.06 billion in 2016. General business, on the other hand, recorded an 8.5 per cent rise in gross premiums to Sh121.67 billion in 2016 up from Sh112.13 billion in 2015. &ldquo;Despite the sector remaining attractive with vast potential, we have witnessed the insurance sector grappling with low penetration, with Kenya&rsquo;s penetration standing at 3.0 per cent compared to South Africa&rsquo;s 14.1 per cent,&rdquo; Oduor said.