The nation is already in August campaign mood and every politician has a raft of all manner of promises to get elected. Word has it President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s promise that there will be total free secondary school education from next year if he is reelected has been termed by NASA lawmakers attempting to &ldquo;take enlightened Kenyans for a ride&rdquo;. Our mole tells Corridors some opposition MPs confronted their counterparts, four Jubilee die-hards, in Parliament over the UhuRuto &ldquo;mere hoodwinking&rdquo; pledge. Five NASA legislators simply told their counterparts to tell their bosses to prove to the country that every class one pupil has a laptop as pledged in 2013 before promising absolutely free secondary education. *****If it is true that the government has a dossier implicating Kwale governor aspirant and former Cabinet minister Chirau Mwakwere as was said by President Uhuru Kenyatta, then why should the State keep the secret? In the public interest, it would be prudent for the President to make known the alleged underhand dealings in land and minerals when Mwakwere was minister for the Environment. &ldquo;Stop the propaganda because we can expose you easily since we have your records. Do not forget that we have all the records of all previous governments and we know what you are,&rdquo; the President said.*****All is not well at City Hall. Reason? Corridors is told two senior officers, one in the communications department and the other an adviser to Governor Evans Kidero, do not see eye to eye. The two, who were once close friends, are said to have differed over management of the governor&rsquo;s media team. The team, Corridors understands, had been complaining to the adviser a communication officer was manhandling them. It is said all eyes are now on Kidero to intervene.*****Cabinet Secretaries, Permanent Secretaries and other top government officers are known to attend official functions armed with a written speech. Some only realise that their speeches have errors as they read them out before dashing back into their vehicles and leaving the venue. Yesterday, at the Kenya School of Government, Treasury CS Henry Rotich, his Public Service counterpart Sicily Kariuki and State House deputy chief of staff Nzioka Waita found themselves between a rock and a hard place after one of the participants during a forum for chairpersons and CEOs from state corporations asked them why &ldquo;they come to open and close&rdquo; the meeting instead of listening to the real issues.