The NASA principals have no legitimacy to blame JP for high food pricesIn the past few weeks, I have listened to NASA&rsquo;s narrative about the causes of the skyrocketing food prices. The principals &mdash; Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi, Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula and Isaac Rutto &mdash; want Kenyans to believe that the Jubilee government is to blame for this. As a keen observer of local politics, these assertions are not surprising. The NASA leaders have repeatedly depicted President Uhuru Kenyatta as a leader who has failed to keep his promises. They are on record telling their supporters that President Uhuru doesn&rsquo;t deserve a second term, and that is normal for opposition leaders. But they have projected themselves as leaders who will save this country and take it to Canaan. I hold a different opinion. It should be noted that this is not the first time the prices of essential commodities have gone up. During the Grand Coalition Government, the country experienced the same challenge in 2008 and 2011. Other than Rutto then the Chepalungu MP, all the other four principals were in government: Raila as the Prime Minister, Kalonzo as the Vice President, Mudavadi and Wetang&rsquo;ula as Cabinet ministers. Why did they not criticise the government? Is it not because they were part and parcel of that system?Now, they are talking of how they can ensure the country is food secure through irrigation and harvesting rainwater, something they didn&rsquo;t do then. How do they expect Kenyans to believe them now? The high cost of living is attributed to the drought and acute shortage of short and long rains. According to reports released by the weather forecast department, we were hit hard this time round. The Food and Agriculture Organisation says drought throughout East Africa affected harvests, and pushed the prices of cereals and other staple foods to unusually high levels.Contrary to claims by the opposition, President Uhuru has made several interventions aimed at lowering the prices, among them directing Treasury CS Henry Rotich and his Agriculture counterpart Willy Bett to meet flour millers and through a supplementary budget presented to the National Assembly on Wednesday.The government agreed to sell one million bags of maize from its strategic food reserve to millers at a reduced price of Sh3, 000 per 90kg, from Sh3, 500. It has also zero-rated the maize imports. In turn, the millers were expected to lower the prices of the flour. They are yet to do so. This raises two questions. Are the private millers working at the behest of forces opposed to the Jubilee government? And two; do they have any legitimacy to continue making super profits at the expense of poor Kenyans? I had a conversation with a friend on this matter and he said, &ldquo;Yes, I appreciate the efforts the President made to fix this problem. However, it appears some people in the government are letting him down. By now, one would have expected the responsible state agencies to crack the whip on unscrupulous millers. The government has reduced the prices of maize, what else do they want?&rdquo;But ours is a liberal economy and millers are allowed to run their businesses without interference. There are grey areas in this Constitution, which need immediate amendments. Kenyans should come out and make these demands.