NASA&rsquo;s fear of losing strategic seats in 12 counties, labelled battlegrounds, has seen the opposition outfit form a Special Purpose Committee to hasten talks.The purpose committee will have two representatives from each political party, making it a 10-member outfit.The scheme is part of the broader opposition plan to influence policies at all levels of government in the 12th Parliament.&ldquo;The committee should have delivered the report by now, since the deadline for parties to give the IEBC their list of aspirants is Thursday this week,&rdquo; said ANC secretary general Godfrey Ososti in a phone interview.The committee is working under hard deadlines imposed by the IEBC. &ldquo;After May 10, which is tomorrow, the process for political parties to have a joint candidate faces both administrative and legal challenges, which can only be addressed through consensus,&rdquo; Osotsi said in a phone interview. The committee will operate at the party level.As a result, the committee&rsquo;s activities will not affect presidential campaigns, the technical committee, Pentagon, and the national coordinating committee activities. &ldquo;The Special Purpose Committee should have unveiled their report before May 10, when parties have to submit their candidates to the IEBC,&rdquo; Ososti said. The NASA chiefs fronted the idea at the Kilifi retreat after the National Coordinating Committee and the National Technical Committee failed to agree on the modalities of having joint candidates for particular seats.The NASA parties have been unable to agree on the regions each party controls since four control opposition strongholds. For instance, ODM and ANC lay claim to Busia county. ANC, Wiper and ODM also lay claim to the Coast.&ldquo;We are looking at Trans Nzoia, Tana River and Nairobi, among other counties,&rdquo; Osotsi said. The NASA parties believe the threat from Independent candidates is real and they might also lose out on strategic positions. &ldquo;NASA will have numbers in the National and county assembly to push the country&rsquo;s agenda,&rdquo; said the secretary general.The Purpose committee is expected to stop interests from powerful individuals who have been working around the clock to influence the process of the parties getting aspirants. Sources privy to the talks confirmed influential leaders harboured strong interests in the process and the Special Purpose committee should come up with a serious plan which cannot be compromised.