The first successful Caesarean Section in Lamu since Independence was carried out last Tuesday. The C-Section was conducted at Faza Hospital, Lamu East, by Dr Zubeir. The patient a 23-year-old primigravida (first-time mother) from Tchgundwa village.The mother had experienced obstructed labour and the baby was in distress, its life in danger. Both the mother and baby boy are doing fine.For decades, Faza Hospital could only offer basic medical services and treat mild ailments due to poor infrastructure.Critically ill patients were referred to the Lamu County Hospital on Lamu Island, which is miles away across the Indian Ocean.Residents, especially pregnant women, bore the brunt, with many dying from childbirth complications since the hospital was ill-equipped.Those referred to the Lamu County Hospital had to endure a five-hour speed boat ride&mdash;for those who could afford it.Many succumbed on the way, while the families that could not afford the speed boat charges kept their patients at home and watched as they slowly died.The cheapest speed boat ride coasts Sh15,000, way beyond the reach of many residents, who depend on fishing to make a living.According to the Kenya Demographic Health Survey released in 2016, Lamu had the highest number of maternal deaths.Lamu was listed as one of six counties, from a group of 15, with the highest burden of maternal deaths, contributing 98.7 per cent of the total deaths.The others were Isiolo, Mandera, Marsabit, Migori and Wajir, which contribute about 60 per cent of all maternal deaths in Kenya annually.Health executive Mohamed Kombo says Faza Hospital, established in the mid-70s, was meant to be a health centre with no theatre or laboratory, and just a small cache of basic dispensary equipment. It was to deliver services to residents who were in dire need as it was the only health facility around.Kombo said before the county government took over in 2013, Lamu recorded 696 maternal deaths per 100,000 live births, but this has decreased to at least 300.Governor Issa Timamy&rsquo;s administration partnered with the national government to rehabilitate and equip the facility for Sh480 million to attend to all manner of patients.Initially it only had the services of a clinical officer and a nurse, but now boasts of a number of medical officers, nurses, an anaesthetist and radiographers.&ldquo;We completed construction and equipping the new operating theatre in Faza Hospital two weeks ago. We posted two medical officers, nurses, anaesthetist and radiographers,&rdquo; Kombo says.He says the national government loaned the county radiology, X-ray, ultrasound and theatre machines, as well as CSSD (central sterile services department) worth Sh380 million. The county will pay back Sh90 million per financial year for the next seven years.The county government has spent Sh100 million to upgrade the facility to hospital status.&ldquo;The county government has also invested on the structure of the operating theatre, laundry, kitchen, perimeter wall, salaries for all personnel, emergency generator and electrification of the entire facility,&rdquo; Kombo says.&ldquo;The facility is now a fully fledged level 4 hospital&rdquo;. The refurbished facility provides a ray of hope to the 30,000 residents of Lamu East.&ldquo;The entire Pate Island, the border areas, including Mkokoni, Kiunga, and all parts of Lamu East subcounty, now have a hospital to come to instead of spending days on the road to Lamu for treatment.&rdquo;Timamy says the hospital is one of his legacies, and there is more to come.&ldquo;Pregnant women would go all the way to Lamu for ultrasounds. The same with patients who needed surgery and X-ray. We felt it was punishment enough. People were dying in their numbers, someone had to act. We thank God for this far because it&rsquo;s our duty to serve and serve we did,&rdquo; he says.&ldquo;We are glad the first-ever CS here has been done and it went well. I&rsquo;m so glad the service is now available to our women on this side of Lamu. This translates to even more safe deliveries, which is among our key objectives.&rdquo;Resident Mohamed Abdalla of Rasini says, &ldquo;Medical services have been a very expensive affair for many of us. Falling sick was something of a taboo, even though its unavoidable.&ldquo;Most people here are poor and hiring a boat for Sh15,000 just to get to hospital is unheard of. We have lost so many mothers and babies due to that, but we are glad all that is over.&rdquo;