Protesters brought business to a standstill in Iten, Elgeyo Marakwet, delaying a meeting between the IEBC and aspirants for several hours on Tuesday. The chaos began after&nbsp;a politician whose name was not in the list of aspirants took to the streets and stormed the commission's office. Ambrose Kimutai, the&nbsp; Jubilee Party nominee for MCA in Kapchumutwa, Keiyo North, demanded to know why his name was missing. The aspirant, commonly&nbsp;referred to as Roho Juu, led his supporters in the protest. Fredrick Chemaluk said they were shocked that Stephen Kemboi, who was second in the nominations, appeared in their leader's place. Chemaluk claimed some Jubilee election officials may have engineered the anomaly.&ldquo;We don&rsquo;t understand why Roho Juu&rsquo;s name is missing and why it has been replaced by someone who lost. IEBC had been told to correct the problem but has failed to do so," Chemaluk said.Kimutai said the demonstrations will go on until his name is put on the list.The aspirant claimed some officials in the party were planning to replace him with his rival. &ldquo;Why did Jubilee present the name of my rival who I beat by over 2,300 votes to the IEBC? We want to know who is behind all this,&rdquo; Kimutai said.He added that he raised the issue with IEBC but that no action had been taken.Kimutai further said he was puzzled by a move by the party to issue him with a nominations certificate and present Kemboi's name to the commission.But county returning officer&nbsp; Moses Sunkuli said the names were listed as presented by parties. Sunkuli, who attempted to calm the protesters, said the electoral body would ask the party to provide the correct name.&ldquo;We understand there was a mix-up. We are still talking to the party to make sure they correct the problem," he said.The protesters proceeded to JP county offices where they camped, waiting to be addressed by the party's officials.Christopher Cheboiboch, who vie for the&nbsp; Emsoo MCA seat on a Kanu ticket, said he was listed him as a Kamariny aspirant.But he noted he was assured the error would be corrected&nbsp;before May 28. &nbsp;