Kenya, like many other countries, is signatory to a number of international instruments. These include the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, adopted in 1979 by the UN General Assembly, Beijing Platform for Action ( 1995 ), and the Protocol to the African Charter on Human and Peoples Rights on the Rights of Women in Africa, famously known as the &lsquo;Maputo Protocol&rsquo;, just to mention a few. All these legal binding mechanisms aim to improve women&rsquo;s welfare around the world, as well as to accelerate the realisation of their rights, very well-articulated under the UN Charter of Human Rights Article 1. Back home, the Kenya 2010 Constitution captures this in Chapter 4 on human rights. Again, this is in endeavour to improve the status of women in relation to men globally.Equality is pegged on rights and entitlements that all human beings have, but here is the catch! Sometimes when the law is nuanced by the reality within which it operates, equality raises more questions than answers. In the push for gender equality, is there an inclusive agenda involving women from all readings of the spectrum? Why do we still have class stratification up to date? Why don&rsquo;t the minority and marginalised groups fully benefit from rights and freedoms guaranteed in the Constitution? Are women in Turkana or Samburu equal to those in Kiambu or Nairobi for instance? And as a country, what are we doing to the environmental, cultural and historical realities that gave birth to the inequalities we see today?It is indeed true this country has made great leaps to achieve gender equality and women&rsquo;s empowerment. The Ministry of Devolution status report ( 2013 ) &lsquo;Success Stories on Gender Being: The Implementation of the Employment Act 2007&rsquo;, outlaws sexual harassment and all forms of discrimination by or against either sex. Gender in Education policy ( 2007) provides clear guidelines for mainstreaming specific issues related to girls and boys in programmatic interventions. The implementation of the 30 per cent public procurement preferences for women and youth is poised to increase their participation in income generation. Disbursement of empowerment funds such as the Women&rsquo;s Enterprise Fund and Uwezo Fund has also contributed to their participation in business and enterprise. The Sexual Offences Act ( 2003 ), which provides a comprehensive framework for the protection of women and girls from sexual gender based Violence, is a milestone towards the realisation of women&rsquo;s dignity. It is important to have legislation that involves women in wealth creation, and gives them protection as well. These acts and funds have women in mind.But when it comes to political representation, I think we need divine intervention. Most men in this country are still held captive by notions of citadel male supremacists. That explains the dismal performance of women in the 2013 elections. Unless men change their attitude towards women leadership, and until women have confidence in their fellow female candidates, I am afraid the statistics in the August 8 poll will not change much.In today&rsquo;s political context, women face several obstacles that prevent them from participating effectively. Deep-rooted patriarchy is the foundation that has built a biased society, inimical party structures and dangerous stereotypes. Apart from finances and inadequate political networks, women are also shackled by a biased socialisation process, which does not adequately prepare women for intense politics. The low representation of women locally and globally in parliamentary and ministerial levels is a matter of concern.I am also cognisant of the fact women alone cannot win this battle alone. There is every need to involve men in this. I still hold the view that men are best placed to advance gender equality. This is because the majority of them are patriarchal by nature, and give little importance to women leadership. It, therefore, becomes a bold move to see men championing women&rsquo;s causes, and society is likely to pay attention. One thing is clear: We cannot exclude men in this struggle. An alternative voice is critical, especially at this juncture.The fact is that we have failed, as a country, to fully support women to this end, and these are a good learning points. Women&rsquo;s full autonomy in the social, political and economic realms is far from ideal. In present day Kenya and despite progressive clauses enshrined in the Constitution that seek to level the playing field between men and women politically, the promise on gender equality is yet to be realised in earnest. Let us be honest, accept our undoing and support our mothers, sisters, aunties and nieces to capture elective seats and serve us.