Mombasa governor aspirant Hezron Awiti has been sued for the custody of his two children. A woman has gone to court seeking Sh1.5 million as monthly maintenance for their children, saying Awiti can provide the comfortable life they were used to. In a petition filed at the Milimani law courts in February, the woman wants the court to give her full custody of the teenage children, citing neglect, mistreatment and sexual harassment claims. She claims in court papers that one of her daughters, who has been living with the father since 2013, has on numerous occasions complained of being sexually harassed by a relative at their Mombasa home and the father has done nothing about it. Awiti on his part has strongly opposed the suit accusing the woman of telling lies and using the children to settle their differences. “It is incestuous and a taboo in my community and criminal in law for such a thing to be allowed to happen. As a parent and father I would not for a moment allow such kind of behaviors in my house,” Awiti says in his replying affidavit. He further says that the claims agianst him are extremely demeaning and cruel to him and his other children. The politician said if he knew of such claims he would have acted accordingly. Awiti and the woman have have four children together. The woman filed the suit in January saying efforts to have him pay school fees for the children have failed. “I wrote a letter and informed him of the issues relating to school fees and money to cater for the children’s expenses but he refused to hear me,” the woman says. She says they both agreed in 2013 the children will live in Mombasa with him so that they bond with their step brothers and sisters. She claims their daughter ran away in December after the politician failed to protect her. “She told me that she was no longer comfortable living in his house because of the harassment,” the woman further states. She also alleges that Awiti locked up the other child fearing that they would escape too. In response to the suit, the politician denies the allegations. “She did not have much time for our children when they were living with her in Nairobi,” says Awiti. He says it will not be in the interest of the two children to be separated from their siblings. The case will proceed on May 25. Awiti, currently Nyali MP, has declared he will challenge Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho on a Vibrant Democratic Party ticket. Other aspirants are Wiper’s Hassan Omar and Suleiman Shahbal of Jubilee. “While in Wiper, I announced my intention to vie for governor only for another person to follow my trail just to frustrate the move,” Awiti said. The legislator ditched Wiper citing frustration in an attempt by an unnamed person to deny him the party’s ticket. “Many talks were held with a view to finding a candidate. But it seems Wiper was not serious and was only keen on a cat and mouse game,” he said. Awiti said Kalonzo organised for 600 delegates to chose between him and Omar. He said 100 delegates from each of the six Mombasa subcounties were to take part in the primaries. A date was set but the exercise was cancelled without his knowledge. “Later, reports emerged that some people from the party had endorsed the other guy [Omar],” said the legislator. Awiti further revealed that the Senator had agreed to retain his seat but reneged. Omar denied the claims in several tweets. The MP added that he had no option but to leave as the mistrust had boiled over. “I could not wait for the same fate that befell me when I was in ODM back in 2013,” he said. Before the 2013 poll, Awiti ditched ODM for Wiper through which he won the Nyali seat, flooring ODM favourite John Mcharo. Awiti said VDP neither supports NASA nor Jubilee and will work with the business community to improve trade in Mombasa. He said the party will secure jobs for locals at Mombasa port as it is opposed to the establishment of a dry port that will “lead to job losses”. “We also want to know the mode of selection Kenya Ports Authority has been using to employ people,” he said.