Immediately NASA announced its lineup, President Uhuru Kenyatta went on the offensive, pouring cold water on the oppositions quest to offer alternative leadership from August.Uhuru accused NASA of lying and lacking an agenda for the country. He said NASA&rsquo;s main agenda is to share power. Uhuru paints NASA as clueless and rudderless.But what is Jubilee&rsquo;s agenda for Kenya? They seem to have no clue at all. They seem to have taken up NASA as their main campaign agenda.If you are a tenderprenuer with the right buttons to push, then I can forgive you for being ignorant of what the rest of Kenyans feel under this regime.Kenya has been one lucky country to have survived four years of plunder, runaway tribalism, nepotism and a leadership with no idea how a government should be ran.Kenyans feel suffocated. Four years ago we had a functioning country. Fast forward to 2017 and we are running on autopilot, while the leadership is in overdrive looting the public coffers.Kenyans are no fools. It is heart-wrenching to watch leaders steeped in graft find a sanctuary.In the past four years of Jubilee rule, we have witnessed raw greed. We have all been shuttled in cable cars between one grand theft and another as the looters give each other knowing winks. For Jubilee to castigate the NASA leaders as groping in the dark is to take Kenyans for fools.NASA leaders are human, hence not perfect. But they are 100 per cent better in governance than Jubilee. NASA has the face of Kenya, unlike JP, which only has two communities &mdash; the Kalenjins and the Kikuyus.The Jubilee leadership should not pretend to be angels. We all know that they are not. The only thing they have focussed on since coming to power is to tyrannise Kenyans through their so-called tyranny of numbers, perpetuating tribalism and graft.Jubilee lacks integrity and cannot discern good from evil.Millions of Kenyans have lost confidence in the Jubilee leadership because of its glaring pitfalls. It is only progressive in self-aggrandisement.It is foolhardy to imagine that Jubilee will climb down from the dizzying height in their Ivory tower and come back to reality after taking Kenyans for granted for a long time.After contradicting themselves over their development record, it finally dawned on them that telling Kenyans about 6,000km of road, the standard gauge railway and &lsquo;successful&rsquo; health projects could only be possible in a well-designed portal.Now, wherever Kenyans want to hallucinate about first world roads, trains and hospitals, they take a tour of the portal before coming back to their reality of potholed roads, a relic SGR and hospitals that should only be found in Siberia.The Jubilee development record is a mirage. It is nothing. It is nowhere. And here it is busy haranguing NASA.Jubilee is not competing with NASA, it is running against change. It will face an alliance that is ready to reduce public coffers theft and wipe out tribalism. Jubilee must recognise that they have limited Kenyans&rsquo; capacity to better their lives by allowing a few to benefit from the national cake.We would rather have more seats shared out in a political lineup like NASA&rsquo;s than have looters take positions in government and leave populations decimated by poverty and hunger.