The Central Bank of Kenya&rsquo;s Monetary Policy Committee yesterday expectedly retained the key lending rate at 10 per cent for the fourth meeting in a row. This means banks will continue charging interest at a maximum rate of 14 per cent. The CBK&rsquo;s top decision making body cited improved weather conditions, expectations of lower food prices and general macro-economic stability. Overall inflation, a measure of annual changes in average prices of goods and services, rose to a 58-month high of 11.5 per cent last month from 10.3 per cent in March. This was attributed to a 21 per cent rise in average food prices, mainly maize flour, sugar, kales (sukuma wiki) and tomatoes. &ldquo;The recent rains and interventions by the Government are expected to provide some relief. Non-food-non-fuel inflation remained stable below five per cent, suggesting that demand pressures and pass-through effects of high food prices are muted,&rdquo; CBK governor Patrick Njoroge said. MPC noted that the banking sector continued to be resilient with private sector credit picking up in March and April largely due to increased credit to private households, manufacturing and real estate. The committee also noted that in light of the interest rate capping, the number of loan applications increased by 23.4 per cent between August 2016 and April 2017, while the value of loan applications decreased by 18.3 per cent, suggesting smaller size of loan applications. The number of loan approvals increased by 35.7 per cent while their value decreased by 16.3 per cent. &ldquo;The Committee will continue to closely monitor developments in the domestic and global economies, and stands ready to take additional measures as necessary,&rdquo; Njoroge said. The committee, which meets once every two months, found that overall inflation is expected to remain above the government target range of 2.5 to 7.5 per cent in the near term due to elevated prices for some food items. The MPC cited a stable foreign exchange market largely driven by resilient receipts from tea, horticulture, tourism, coffee, and diaspora remittances which narrowed the current account deficit. &ldquo;The CBK&rsquo;s foreign exchange reserves are at all-time high levels. They currently stand at $8.24 billion (Sh 851.19 billion) compared to $7.72 billion (Sh797.48 billion) at the end of March 2017,&rdquo; Njoroge said. &ldquo;These reserves continue to provide a buffer against short-term shocks.&rdquo;