Meru National Park is an out-of-the-way wildlife paradise that is well worth a visit if you have a few days to spare. The landscape is a mix of grassland, bushland and semi-desert. Several rivers flow through the park from the nearby Nyambeni Hills, creating ideal conditions for raffia and doum palms trees, and populations of hippo. The large herds of buffalo, accompanied by white egrets and ox pecker birds, prefer to graze in the grasslands. Elephants roam everywhere and sometimes have a rusty colour from dusting themselves with the red soil. Meru Park is known for its population of Grevy&rsquo;s zebra, reticulated giraffe, gerenuks and the Somali ostrich which are primarily found north of the equator. There are prides of lions, cheetah and the rare black serval has been spotted on some occasions. For bird enthusiasts, this is a bird-lovers&rsquo; paradise. Inside the park is a fenced rhino sanctuary, where you can easily view both white and black rhinos. Armed rangers from the Kenya Wildlife Service rangers patrol the sanctuary daily and it&rsquo;s not unusual to see them walking around in the wilderness to check on their wards. Meru National Park became world famous in the 1960s because of the story of Elsa, the orphaned lioness that was hand-raised by game warden George Adamson and his wife, Joy. Elsa was buried in the park and it is possible to make an excursion to the gravesite. In terms of accommodation, Elsa&rsquo;s Kopje is a high-end luxury lodge of situated on a hill inside the park and with splendid views over the park. Outside the park, Rhino Safari Camp, built on along a riverbank, is a highly rated eco-camp, and the Ikweta Safari Camp is considered good value for money.It&rsquo;s about a seven-hour drive from Nairobi along the A2 highway. At Isiolo town, you take the eastbound road to Meru town the onwards to the park, entering through the Murera Gate. Alternatively, a flight from Wilson Airport takes about one hour. A two-night stay is advisable in order to fully enjoy this secluded wilderness. Location: Meru National ParkContacts: Elsa&rsquo;s Kopje: +254 730 127 000; Ikweta Safari Camp: +254 705 200 050; Rhino River Camp: info@rhinorivercamp.comStar rating: 4/5