Juja constituency has received the National Youth Service cohorts for the NYS Youth Empowerment Programme for the first time. Some 500 youths from the five wards in the constituency were enrolled for the programme. NYS deputy general director Gathirua Michuki promised to hire 400 more youths. Michuki said the young people will carry out many projects in the region including rehabilitation of feeder roads, dams, and cleaning. He spoke on Saturday in Juja town while launching the programme. Michuki said the programme will create jobs. “Our youths will be getting wages of Sh471 per day, whereby Sh171 will go to savings in the five saccos in every ward. We want the youths to save so that in the near future they can use the cash to initiate income-generating activities for themselves,” Michuki said. “We will also create five cooperatives to start with, to add to some 33 saving schemes, which will eventually rise to 60. In the schemes, money will be given to individuals who will be assisted to start their own ventures. This will greatly reduce joblessness, poverty and crime.” The deputy director called on the Kiambu government to support the programme by providing trucks that will ferry garbage to dumpsites. Michuki reassured the youths that their money will not be misappropriated, saying reforms undertaken by the Ministry of Devolution sealed loopholes for squandering resources. “Unscrupulous individuals have been kicked out, and that means youths’ money is well safeguarded and no single penny will be lost,” Michuki said. “The problem of illicit brews and petty crimes will come to an end because most of our youths have been frustrated for a long time,” Juja MP and JP candidate Francis Munyua said.  NYS deputy general director Gathirua Michuki said he will ensure politicians do not politicise the project to gain a political mileage. “This is a non-political project aimed at helping our youths improve their living standards,” he said.  Former Juja MP Ngengi Muigai called on youths to be agents of change in their respective areas. He said they should lead by example in fighting anti-social vices. Juja MP Francis Munyua said the national government has fulfilled its pledge to create jobs for youths.    