Posta Rangers&rsquo; 11-match unbeaten run came to an end yesterday as they succumbed to a 1-0 defeat against Ulinzi Stars in a Sportpesa Premier League match at Afraha stadium, Nakuru.The lone goal that ended Rangers good run was scored by Ulinzi striker Stephen Waruru in the 51st minute. Despite launching a number of misiles againsts the Ulinzi, Rangers found the soldiers a toug nut to crack and failed to score in their third consecutive league match of the season.The match was, however, generally balanced especially in the opening half before Rangers mounted a bit of pressure in the second half. At Ruaraka, newbies Nakumatt edged out the experienced Chemelil Sugar 2-1. Former AFC Leopards players Kepha Aswani and Eugene Ambulwa scored a goal apiece to reduce John Mwita&rsquo;s strike to a mere consolation.Western Stima succumbed to Sony Sugar 2-0 yesterday at Awendo Green Stadium. Marwa Chamberi opened the scores in the 26th minute before Amos Asemebeka sealed the win in the 62nd minute to push Stima deep into the relegation zone. This was the seventh loss for the the Henry Omino charges.Ugandan international Geoffrey Walusimbi saved a point for Gor Mahia at Nyayo Stadium after curving in a free kick late against home team Thika United. The visitors had taken early lead and defended gallantly until Walusimbi pulled his magic. Against the run of play, Thika United launched a counter attack in the 27th minute that ended with Mwinyi Kibwana going past Boniface Oluoch top plant the ball in an empty net.Gor Mahia&rsquo;s effort to equaliase was frustrated by the vistors who maintained their lead at half-time. Kogalo upped their tempo upon resumption but Thika defended were still upto the challenge. Gor levelled matters from a penalty in the 64th minute after a foul tackle on Jacques Tuyisenge.Tuyisenge was stretchered off for treatment and strike partner Timothy Otieno stepped up but could not do much. Kogalo were left chasing the game but wasted chances in the haste until Walusimbi found a way through.ResultsNakumatt 2 Chemelil..1Sony Sugar 2 Western Stima 0Ulinzi Stars 1 Posta Rangers oGor Mahia 1 Thika United..1SaturdayKK Homeboyz 1 AFC Leopards..1Mathare United 0 Tusker..2Sofapaka 0 Sharks..0Zoo kericho 3 Bandari..2Muhoroni 0 Nzoia Sugar..3