When I first heard that former Vivo Energy managing director Polycarp Igathe had agreed to be Senator Mike Sonko&rsquo;s running mate in the race for Nairobi governor, I had to pick my jaw from the floor.The last thing I expected to see was a business leader of Igathe&rsquo;s caliber joining ranks with Sonko, a man who came to the political limelight through the sheer shock value of his public displays of all that is ridiculous. Igathe&rsquo;s astonishing deficiency of sound judgment on this occasion is enough to sting the souls of all who stand in one accord with good sense.Perhaps Igathe salivated over the prospect of adding the feather of &ldquo;Deputy Governor&rdquo; to his hat and in blind ambition rushed to bless Sonko&rsquo;s political&#8203; schemes without consulting the Constitution. Well, now that he has chosen to deputise Sonko, let&rsquo;s help him understand what he got himself into.Article 180 of the Constitution requires a governor to pick a running mate who automatically assumes the office of deputy governor upon the election of his principal as governor. The roles of a deputy governor are set out under Article 179( 4 ) and ( 5 ) of the Constitution. He is the deputy chief executive officer of the county, and acts as governor only in the governor&rsquo;s absence, period!What that means, fellow Nairobians, is that a deputy governor can only exercise executive powers in the governor&rsquo;s absence and would, during the governor&rsquo;s presence, merely take directions from the governor on what to do. Any notions that Igathe will contribute to the management of the affairs of the city should the duo win are wildly misguided.The position of deputy governor would be all fine and dandy if Igathe were a running mate to a progressive mind that is focussed on sustainable development. Sadly, that is far from the case here. Igathe, a University of Nairobi graduate, a past chairman of the Kenya Association of Manufacturers, an ex-managing director of Haco Industries Kenya as well as an ex-director of Mercantile Insurance Company is likely to be bored to death should the duo win.He is a man who is used to being at the forefront of the execution corporate goals and would, in the event of a Sonko win, be forced to implement the &ldquo;vision&rdquo; of a wall punching, PR driven politician, whose resume incorporates a masterful balance between insulting radio presenters on air and lying down on public roads.Do not be deceived by whatever recent transformation Nairobi&rsquo;s soon-to-be former Nairobi senator purports to have gone through. The naked truth is that it is all a cleverly crafted fa&ccedil;ade aimed at hoodwinking Nairobians into thinking that the leopard has changed its spots and is now fit for the great responsibility of governing the sheep. &ldquo;A hyena is a hyena, whether it is under the bed, under the table or even if it puts on sheep&rsquo;s skin&rdquo; Governor Evans Kidero recently said.The city is going through change. The current governor has oiled the wheels of motion. The basic foundation for building a prosperous city has been set, including the launch of an urban plan. Surely, what manner of witchcraft would Nairobians need to be overshadowed by in order to replace a visionary leader with a populist one who cannot understand policy issues?Is Igathe&rsquo;s inclusion in Team Sonko supposed to hoodwink Nairobians? A sensational failure lies ahead if at all this was Sonko and Igathe&rsquo;s intention.While speaking to Business Daily on June 4, 2015, Igathe was asked about the most challenging period professionally and here is how he responded, &ldquo;When I was working at Breweries, standing in role as marketing director. I was working for people who were too political. I felt like I was reporting to Parliament and I&rsquo;m very weak in politics.&rdquo;What changed? The job of deputy governor can be a trying one, politically speaking. Before accepting to become bedfellows with Sonko, Igathe should have consulted Machakos Deputy Governor Benard Kiala for training on how to deal with the manifold agonies that can plague deputy governors in this land.Machakos is not the only example. Visit Kisumu and Ruth Odinga will tell you how being a deputy governor can be harder than being a soldier in combat during the cold season in World War I. In fact, it&rsquo;s only in Nairobi county that we have seen a harmonious work relationship between the governor and his deputy.Opting to play bridesmaid to Sonko will only serve to make an already politically difficult job even harder. A man like John Gakuo, being a former Town Clerk, would in my view have been better placed to take the mantle of deputising the our clownish senator in his attempt to clinch the city&rsquo;s top position. Gakuo has been an insider and would have brought the wealth of experience and knowledge required to somehow give direction to Sonko&rsquo;s governorship campaign (if at all that is humanly possible).