Business in Kakamega town came to a standstill on Saturday as SportPesa Mega Jackpot winner Samuel Abisai made a grand return to his home.On April 30, Abisai won Sh221 million &mdash; the biggest payout in African gaming history.Abisai arrived in Kakamega town at 12:30pm, his six-vehicle convoy was led by police outriders.Traders in the Kakamega main market who do business with Abisai&rsquo;s father Mabinda, who sells ropes for a living, abandoned their stalls and joined his convoy to have a glimpse of him as Isukuti beats filled the air.Boda boda riders briefly halted their trade to join the procession that made its way through the streets of Kakamega town before heading to Bukhungu Stadium, where speeches were made.Abisai was born and brought up in a humble home in Sichirai village, Lurambi, and he declared that the win was for all Kakamega &ldquo;sufferers&rdquo;.He committed to fulfilling his promise of setting up a soccer academy in Kakamega.&ldquo;The jackpot win is for all Kakamega sufferers because I was one of then not long ago and I know what life they go through. This is the time for you if you have a talent,&rdquo; Abisai said amid deafening applause and cheers from a huge crowd that gathered within less than one hour at the stadium.&ldquo;I never believed I was a millionaire ... Life has been a hustle,&rdquo; he said.Many footballers in the rural area have talent that goes to waste due to lack of exposure and nurturing.The Musingu High School alumnus said that he will also connect tap water to all his neighbours in Sichirai.Abisai&rsquo;s advice for the youth was that betting can change life, but they should bet responsibly. &ldquo;You know that using money meant for food, school fees and other needs to bet is wrong and should be avoided. Use extra money you may have to bet,&rdquo; he said.Abisai was unveiled last Tuesday by SportPesa as the winner of the Sh221,301,602 jackpot after he correctly predicted all the 17 matches.Born in a family of 12, Abisai was forced onto the streets early in life before being sponsored by Compassion International until he joined the University of Nairobi to study Mandarin.He completed his studies in China before being employed by a Chinese firm in Kenya on his return. Abisai said he was introduced to betting by his younger brother last year.&ldquo;I almost became mad when by 4pm on Sunday, 14 games were through and I knew that I was already a millionaire, at least Sh50 million. My friends and I switched off our phones and went to a nearby restaurant to relax. When I put my phone on, unaware of what had happened, I received a call from someone who introduced himself as a SportPesa captain who dropped the good news and I was delighted,&rdquo; he said.Abisai said he had unsuccessfully played the Mega Jackpot four times. And on that day, he placed two bets of Sh100 each, and one went through.Mabinda said he was at the market when his son called and told him that he had received a call from SportPesa.He said the win was God&rsquo;s work.Abisai&rsquo;s mother Margaret Anene said she received the good news while at Lumino Hospital. &ldquo;I saw my son [on TV] and jumped out of the wheel chair. Glory be to God.&rdquo;SportPesa CEO Ronald Karauri said that the firm will support Abisai and give him a team of skilled financial and legal advisers.&ldquo;He should be worth more than Sh221 million in the next two or three years. I will make sure he spends his money well. SportPesa will walk with him,&rdquo; he said.