Kenya Airways may start making profit in three years on improved financial and operational efficiencies in a &ldquo;complex&rdquo; turnaround strategy, chairman Michael Joseph said yesterday. The national carrier&rsquo;s full-year net loss fell by 61.10 per cent to Sh10.20 billion in the period ended March from Sh26.23 billion &ndash; a record on Kenya&rsquo;s corporate scene &ndash; 12 months months earlier. The airline further rebounded to an operating profit of Sh897 million from Sh4.09 billion loss a year earlier on ongoing turnaround strategy, the Operation Pride which was rolled out in October 2015. Joseph said he was encouraged by the performance and that Pole Sebastian Mikosz, who takes over as CEO next week, will continue the recovery work initiated by outgoing MD Mbuvi Ngunze. Ngunze will, however, remain at the airline for two months as a financial adviser. Joseph said Mikosz, who led Polish national carrier Lot Airlines to a first profit in seven years in 2014, has three years to return Kenya Airways to profitability, with an option of an extension. &ldquo;It doesn&rsquo;t matter whether he&rsquo;s Kenyan or not Kenyan,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;What we want to bring is somebody to help us turn this airline around for the benefit of Kenya and Kenyans.&rdquo; Mikosz will work with, among others, Vincent Coste who joined KQ last November from Qatar Airways as commercial director, and Dutch Jan de Vegt who was appointed chief operating officer in July 2016 from UK&rsquo;s Cobalt Ground Solutions. Joseph said more senior staff will be hired in coming months to strengthen and improve KQ&rsquo;s top management. The airline has been suffering largely from a failed, capital-intensive fleet expansion strategy, the Project Mawingu, initiated during the tenure of Titus Naikuni who left the airline in October 2014. &ldquo;What&rsquo;s more important is you will see more improvement in our operation and financial performance,&rdquo; Joseph told an investor briefing in Nairobi. &ldquo;That&rsquo;s what is driving us to say we are very positive and we are concentrating on our future and we see ourselves being one of the few African airlines that are profitable and financially viable without serious government support.&rdquo; KQ&rsquo;s revenue in the 12 months to end-March, however, dropped 8.51 per cent to Sh106.28 billion due to reduced capacity, although passenger numbers grew 5.4 per cent to a record 4.46 million.Cabin factor, a measure of passenger occupation, went up 4.0 per cent to 72.3 per cent.Total operating costs dropped 12.37 per cent to Sh105.38 billion, direct costs slowed by 3.82 per cent to Sh65.36 billion on rationalisation of operations, while fleet ownership costs decreased from Sh29.58 billion to Sh15.52 billion on reduced fleet. &ldquo;We are seeing the first results of our investment in the turnaround. I had always said this was a marathon. There is a fundamental shift in our business,&rdquo; Ngunze said. &ldquo;We have already fully implemented 342 initiatives that are delivering value.&rdquo; The changes under the strategy, he said, has led to &ldquo;more competitive pricing, better rates from critical suppliers, improved connectivity at the hub leading to an increase of 13 per cent in intra Africa traffic year on year amongst numerous other gains&rdquo;. KQ said the capital optimisation programme, launched July last year and led by Deloitte Consulting, will reduce the airline&rsquo;s net debt, which remains above Sh100 billion, and free more cash in the short to medium term. &ldquo;As part of the process, the company has engaged all its financial stakeholders on an ongoing basis to ensure full understanding and alignment with the Company&rsquo;s objectives and to seek their support in the balance sheet restructuring,&rdquo; Joseph said.