NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga yesterday hit the ground running shortly after presenting his nomination papers when he held his first rally in Jacaranda Grounds, Doonholm, Nairobi.He took a swipe at the government, saying it is lying to Kenyans on the cost of living. Raila said the maize subsidy is enriching some individuals at the expense of the taxpayers.The government&rsquo;s subsidised and branded maize flour is in supermarkets, but several outlets have limited customers to just two packets each.A 2kg packet of maize flour is retailing at Sh90 and members of the public had planned to buy in bulk. One-kilogramme packets are being sold at half the price. &ldquo;Wanalipa wakulima wa Mexico halafu wanasema eti unga ni Sh90. Hii unga iko kwa DP Ruto na State House kwa Uhuru Kenyatta (They pay Mexican farmers, then claim a 2kg packet of maize flour is Sh90. This maize flour is with DP Ruto and in Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s State House),&rdquo; Raila said. Raila, who was cleared by the IEBC as NASA presidential candidate, said the alliance is ready to face Jubilee&rsquo;s President Uhuru Kenyatta in August.&ldquo;Once we get to power, the cost of living will come down within 90 days. The price of maize flour, sugar, milk and rent will fall,&rdquo; he said.The ODM party leader said when NASA assumes power, they will employ people without discrimination.Raila said Kenyans can no longer keep quiet with the mistreatment from the government, saying Jubilee has to go home. &ldquo;We can&rsquo;t take it anymore, when a few people continue sucking our blood. I am Joshua, and Kalonzo is Caleb. We are going into the Promised Land,&rdquo; he said.Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, who is Raila&rsquo;s running mate, said the time for change has come. &ldquo;Jubilee will have to go home in August. Flour is a commodity of interest and Jubilee should know a hungry person is an angry person,&rdquo; he said.Kalonzo congratulated Raila for being cleared by the IEBC.He said Ruto will be the downfall of Uhuru. &ldquo;Ruto will lead to Uhuru&rsquo;s downfall, because people are tired with this government,&rdquo; Kalonzo said.Chama Cha Mashinani leader Isaac Rutto said Jubilee leaders should brace themselves for a tough contest.&ldquo;They will see the real tyranny of numbers,&rdquo; he said.Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho criticised the government, saying he will grace the launch of the SGR this week and ask unanswered questions.Uhuru will commission the first phase of the SGR on Wednesday.