A number of Cabinet Secretaries and Principal Secretaries are a worried lot. Reason? A mole in the presidency has whispered to Corridors that President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured) is planning radical changes, including dropping some of the officials, if he wins the August election.Those being targetted are said to be incompetents, have failed to deliver on the Jubilee manifesto or have a poor working relationship with members of the public. The mole went ahead to tell Corridors that an opinion poll was secretly commissioned to check on the performance of top government officials. PANIC has gripped Orange House after a senior official threatened to spill the beans on a mega scandal involving some members of the National Elections Board. The party official, who was recently being forced out of Orange House by a cartel operating with the blessings of another top party official, raised the red flag last week at a meeting also attended by party leader Raila Odinga. Without mentioning names, the official narrated how a certain commissioner pocketed Sh2 million from an MP from Nyanza who lost at the primaries. Our little bird discovered that the MP ended up having his name on the formal party candidates&rsquo; list submitted to the IEBC at the cost of a young and ambitious aspirant, who won the nominations. It is only a matter of time before this ticking time bomb explodes in the face of the Orange party. A first-term MP from Western who has developed a habit of defending a Cabinet Secretary from the region whenever the CS appears before a parliamentary committee he is a member of was on Tuesday bashed by his colleagues when he embarked on his usual defensive theatrics. The MP, allied to Jubilee Party, was bashed mostly by his JP colleagues for trying to defend the CS from shedding light on certain activities of the ministry the CS heads. The MP could not allow his colleagues even to proceed with questioning the CS. THE governor of a South Rift county is said to be having hard times using social media to share with its electorates. But his running mate is not helping matters for him. In a bid to appear to be digitally savvy, the running mate recently opened Facebook and Twitter accounts where he regularly updates his political activities and shares their campaign schedules. However, his mastery of the Queen&rsquo;s English is nowhere close to good. In a post that attracted much mirth on social media, the good man posted that he had received a &ldquo;delication&rdquo; from Nyanza who were to &ldquo;Bench Mark&rdquo; and &ldquo;louded&rdquo; the good job going on. The man declared himself &ldquo;deputy governor&rdquo; in a post that drove social media users into a frenzy.