Police in Machakos county are investigating alleged sodomy at Machakos School for the Deaf. A 14-year-old was allegedly sodomised between February 8 and 10 by three other students and the assault covered up by the teachers. The matter was reported at the Machakos police station on February 23.The standard four pupil said he was sodomised by his seniors in standard eight, seven and five. He said the standard eight boy had defiled him on two different occasions. The pupil had marks on his neck. He told his mother the three prodded him with broom thistles to silence him. Whenever he reported the assault to the teacher, he would be beaten.His mother learnt of the assault after she was told to pick him from school on February 11. She said a teacher accused the boy of sodomising three others instead. &ldquo;A second teacher called and told me to be there at 7am to pick my child. I got there two hours later and apologised,&rdquo; she said. He told me that my child had sodomised three children and gave me medicine, adding that I should ensure he takes all of them.&rdquo;She was told to take the child back to school on February 20. At home, the woman administered the medicine as instructed. &ldquo;The medicine was making my son sleepy and tired. On the day I was supposed to take him back to school his condition worsened and I took him to Nairobi Women&rsquo;s Hospital, Hurlingham Branch,&rdquo; she said.He was admitted and tests showed he had been sodomised. It was established that the medicine the school gave the woman was post-exposure prophylaxis, given to people who have been exposed to HIV. It is supposed to be taken for 30 days to prevent infection. His mother went back to school and asked to see the children his son allegedly sodomised, but was told she had no right to see them.Principal Sarah David said, &ldquo;I was not around at the time, but I suspect the teacher did not want her to see the kids because she was not fluent in sign language.&rdquo;She said the boy, whose mother says is the victim, was the one who sodomised the two other boys. &ldquo;When we found out what the boy had done to the other students we took them to Machakos Level 5 Hospital, had them tested and put on PEP,&rdquo; David said.