After a poor start to the 2017 Kenya Premier League, defending champions Tusker are now breathing hard on Gor Mahia&rsquo;s back after the conclusion of the 13th round of matches over the weekend.Tusker FC sit second on the log with 27 points behind Gor, who are still top with the same number of points but with a superior goal difference. This is despite playing to a 1-1 draw with Posta Rangers on Sunday. Tusker, who have been unbeaten in the last 11 matches, caged AFC Leopards 1-0 at Kinoru Stadium, to snatch maximum points.AFC Leopards, who are 13-time champions, remain win-less in their last six outings and sit 12th on the log with 15 points. Posta Rangers dropped to fourth with 24 points after salvaging a point from Gor Mahia. The 2010 league champions Ulinzi Stars lost to Chemelil Sugar to stay third with 24 points&mdash;three points adrift Tusker and Gor. A win for the soldiers would have seen them topple Tusker on goal difference. All the same, win enabled the sugar men to position 11 with 17 points.League newbies Kariobangi Sharks laboured to a 1-1 draw with second from bottom Western Stima to remain fifth on 21 point. The William Muluya&rsquo;s boys are a point ahead of the 2009 champions Sofapaka, who shared spoils with 10th placed Nzoia Sugar. A barren draw at Mbaraki Stadium meant hosts Bandari and the visiting Kakamega Homeboyz share points though Paul Nkata&rsquo;s charges enjoy superior goal difference. The two are in position eight with 18 points a piece. The 2006 champions Sony Sugar were held by Zoo to a 1-1 draw and sit in position 13th with 15 points. Kericho-based side are 13th on the log with 13 points.After taking up the managerial role at Thika United early this month, Nicholas Muyoti remains win-less in the last four games he has overseen including last weekend&rsquo;s barren draw against fellow strugglers Muhoroni Youth. Muhoroni have are 15th on the log with 11 points while Thika are next in line with 10. The 2008 champions Mathare United succumbed 2-1 to Nakumatt FC to drop to the bottom of the log. Mathare, who have won two games so far, risk the axe if they do not bounce back to their winning ways soonest. Victory for Nakumatt saw the super market chain ascend to position seven with 19 points.The 2010 KPL Golden Boot winner, Stephen Waruru of Ulinzi Stars, tops the scoring chart with seven goals while Nakumatt&rsquo;s Kepha Aswani is second with six goals. Gilbert Fiamenyo of AFC Leopards with five goals is third.