THAT politics is gruelling is no secret. Prof Anyang’ Nyong’o (pictured) has a story to tell. We are told the good old politician fell asleep in the middle of an interview recently in Kisumu. Nyong’o had enjoyed a heavy meal of ugali that is thought to have contributed to him ‘blacking out’.  WHO in State House is spreading rumours about Peter Kenneth? We are told that Jomo Gechaga and Njee Muturi have been telling people all manner of stories, some not very accurate. Jomo was reportedly openly backing Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko for the Nairobi gubernatorial seat.  THE sending home of big names in Mt Kenya region during the Jubilee nominations has angered some residents who suspect it is a plot by outsiders to end their prolonged political dominance. Angry voters even took to social media and asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to “open his eyes wide” amid fears the Mt Kenya ‘pillars’ could be replaced by weaklings who cannot defend the House of Mumbi to retain power in future. Some agitated leaders added: “We are a Mugumo tree which can’t be cut down.”  STILL on Jubilee nominations, we are told that succession politics may have largely informed the outcome of the Jubilee primaries. Those in the know say a powerful female politician who has strong connections with a senior Jubilee leader, her husband and a Cabinet Minister from Rift Valley colluded to remove individuals they think are posing a threat to their grip on the county’s politics. Corridors has been told the CS has landed in trouble, and voters will reject candidates she helped to rig the nominations.  A politician from Migori county who lost ODM primaries has been lying to a city beauty queen he won the MP ticket. Last week, the man, according to our mole, made several calls and sent the lass messages asking her for a date to celebrate his ‘win’. “It is time to toast! Time to celebrate my win and rekindle our hot sessions. Confirm location, I am flying back to the city this afternoon” one text message he sent to the lady read in part. But the woman, who seems to be well informed, inquired from the party and was told the aspirant suffered a humiliating defeat. She has now blocked calls from the wannabe MP.  A sitting MP from Nyanza who was beaten by a powerful woman leader in the primaries is doing the unthinkable. He is bankrolling street protests against his competitor who has since been declared the legitimate winner. At the weekend, the man sent about Sh10,000 to boda boda riders in his small shopping centre in his backyard for the dirty work. However, GSU officers broke the demo and beat the protesters senseless.