The Central Bank of Kenya said yesterday a portal to help borrowers compare hidden loan charges will go live soon. The regulator said it has partnered with Kenya Bankers Association, the industry lobby, in developing the website. &ldquo;We need to arm the customers much more by affording them a way of window when shopping for loans through the website,&rdquo; CBK governor Patrick Njoroge said. The cost of credit website will serve as a benchmark for bank customers to compare total cost associated with a loan and its repayment schedule. The website will also disclose lenders&rsquo; annual percentage rate, which takes into account the interest rate component, bank charges and fees, third party costs including legal fees, insurance costs, valuation fees, and government levies. &ldquo;A key factor is how banks adjust their business models in the new environment. This is a shift from lazy banking to real banking,&rdquo; Njoroge said. A research by Ecobank released in February suggested that on average, banks take home about 0.9 per cent of loan value in fees and commissions. Equity, KCB and Co-op Bank had the highest non-interest charges at 2.02 per cent, 1.37 per cent and 1.07 per cent, respectively, of the loan value. The study showed that commercial banks made $215 million (Sh22.22 billion) in fees and commissions from loans and advances last year, with the non-interest charges expected to rise above 100 basis points following the interest rate cap as lenders sought to compensate funded income shortages.Njoroge said that there was rebound in growth in credit to households, manufacturing, and real estate in March and April. CBK&rsquo;s Monetary Policy Committee, which retained the key lending rate at 10 per cent on Monday, noted that in light of the interest rate cap, the number of loan applications increased by 23.4 per cent between August 2016 and April 2017. The value of loan applications, on the other hand, decreased by 18.3 per cent. Between August 2016 and April, the number of loan approvals increased by 35.7 per cent while their value decreased by 16.3 per cent. Noroge said that lending to micro, small and medium enterprises was down 5.7 per cent in the period, even though small banks have increased lending to this sector. &ldquo;If you want to know who has reduced lending to this sector ...it is the large banks,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;This is a concern because this is really where job creation and potential growth for output takes place.&rdquo;