The maize crisis did not result from an artificial shortage, the President has said and scheduled a "major announcement" on the matter for this week.The government clarified on Monday that the 29,900 tonnes of maize imported last week is Mexican white maize transhipped to Kenya through South Africa.Transport Principal Secretary Paul Mwangi said SA imported maize from Mexico last year when they faced an acute shortage. He said the excess maize was stored in Durban and sold to Kenya by Inter Africa Grains PTY of Johannesburg.Members of the public have registered doubt and are anticipating a scandal.More on this: Mexican maize was shipped from South Africa, says Transport PSBut&nbsp;President Uhuru Kenyatta said his government is committed to ensuring life is affordable for all Kenyans.&nbsp; In an address&nbsp;last week &nbsp;to Kenyans living in the UK, Uhuru said he will explain how the government&nbsp;plans to solve the&nbsp; problem and lay out&nbsp; long-term measures. He noted the government waived taxes on maize and sugar imports until October to cover shortfalls. Read:&nbsp; Duty-free maize import window ends October - PS Also read: Farmers' welfare come first even as we import sugar, maize &ndash; Ruto In a video seen by the Star, the President said the delay in the maize import was meant to protect local farmers. "There is no VAT on all food items, these are some of the interventions for the shortfall. We had to wait before allowing importation as this is an issue of a chicken and an egg. The issue of maize and sugar is a delicate balance," he said.The President said the government had to wait and weigh the conditions before going for the imports.&nbsp; He said had his government not done that, the consumer and farmer would be adversely affected by now. "If you import maize, farmers start to scream that you have imported cheap maize. So you have to wait until the very last minute when all available stocks have been exhausted," he said.&nbsp;"This is the reason we are asking for another term to finish our agenda. We have just started construction of major dams that will see us get bumper harvests." He added that they will remain focused "even when others accuse us of borrowing too much. Where else do they want us to get the money?". &nbsp;