Investigators from the Global Fund have camped in Nairobi to probe whether any of their grants to Kenya may have been embezzled.Global Fund finances most of Kenya&rsquo;s HIV, malaria and tuberculosis programmes.The fund carries out routine audits in recipient countries, but a Health ministry official said the current visit was largely prompted by last year&rsquo;s Sh5 billion health scandal. &ldquo;They came on Monday and they will leave this week on Friday,&rdquo; the official said. They are particularly interested in the Sh50 billion grant allocation for 2014-16.In 2012, the then inspector general John Parsons forced Kenya to refund Sh270 million that had been embezzled. The visit comes as US Ambassador Robert Godec said USAID has suspended nearly Sh2.1 billion in grants to the Health ministry due to corruption, weak accounting procedures and lack of accountability.A German non-profit organisation, DSW, said the government must now clean up the Afya House mess. &ldquo;We call on President Uhuru Kenyatta to move with speed to discuss and resolve all issues raised by the US Ambassador to ensure swift return to full US government support for healthcare services delivery in Kenya,&rdquo; DSW Kenya country director Evelyn Samba said. DSW funds sexual and reproductive health and population programmes in Kenya.Head of the National Empowerment Network of People Living with HIV-Aids in Kenya Nelson Otwoma said local NGOs were also worried other donors might cut funding to Kenya.&ldquo;The worry is, in public health most donors do what the US does. Other donors may follow suit. We are worried because Kenya is dependent on external funding for HIV activities,&rdquo; he said.The country will this month send a concept note to Global Fund to access Sh36 billion for HIV, malaria and TB treatment for 2018-20.&ldquo;The US is the biggest donor to Global Fund. So they might also start to demand more transparency and accountability,&rdquo; Otwoma said.Global Fund has already allocated Kenya the money, but, to access it, the government must also commit equal domestic resources and demonstrate how the donor money will be spent.Yesterday, Health CS Cleopa Mailu said they were waiting for the probe report before carrying out any action.&ldquo;[The] outcomes will inform further action. The development partners including the US government recognise that investigations by these institutions are outside the purview of the Ministry of Health,&rdquo; he said.