The prty primaries left Jubilee in a quandary. The majority of their incumbent MPs in Nairobi, Central, parts of Nakuru and Mt Kenya East lost and are now threatening to run as independent candidates. Most of them have actually been cleared to vie. A host of others blamed their defeat defeat on Deputy President William Ruto, who allegedly has set up his 2022 candidates&rsquo; lineup in advance. Devolution Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri has also been roped in as the Deputy President&rsquo;s hatchet man. Whilst the veracity of these allegations is yet to be confirmed, they have placed President Uhuru Kenyatta in a very awkward situation. Indeed, so much so that he was forced to issue a public denial.By Monday&rsquo;s deadline, 4,950 aspirants had been cleared to run as independents.There are those who believe or think the President has given his Deputy President too much leeway in national politics. Many in this group also believe that the President has abdicated state responsibilities in so doing. One alleged consequence is that the DP tended to concentrate his abilities on his 2022 presidential bid at the expense of Uhuru&rsquo;s reelection in August. It is not clear how this situation came about but the grapevine has it that the President is a very confident individual who often delegates to his Deputy.The Opposition aver that he is an indolent laid-back politician who is very happy to allow others to do the spade work. Whatever the reason, an uncomfortable situation is developing in the President&rsquo;s strongholds that could cost him dearly in terms of votes, and deny his party, Jubilee, the Majority in Parliament. The NASA brigade could also use the anomaly to raid the vote-bank in Jubilee strongholds.NASA is planning to dislodge President Uhuru from power on a multi-faceted political platform by launching an &ldquo;Ugali Revolution&rdquo;. The high cost of living and the rise in the prices of basic commodities has hit the common man, and all other consumers, hard. The costs of favourite staple diet Ugali, milk, bread, sugar, paraffin and water have gone up exponentially. The rise in the cost of living cuts across race, colour, tribe and religion, and this is where NASA intends to hit Jubilee hard, by instituting a voter revolution across the country. By employing political rhetoric from accomplished political brawlers such as Raila Odinga, Governor Isaac Rutto and Senator Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula, they intend to make former French Queen Marie Antoinette ( give them cake fame) look like a harmless schoolgirl in relation to Jubilee. The President&rsquo;s statement of &ldquo;let them swallow saliva as we eat meat&rdquo; may come to haunt him to eternity.The other platform is corruption. The NYS grand heist is still fresh in the mind of the ordinary Kenyan voter. Many of the alleged co-conspirators are walking free, and at least one is running for political office and has all but secured the Office of Governor. The prosecution of this case has been lukewarm, to say the least. In allowing suspects to run for political office, Jubilee is all but confirming involvement in fraudulent activities. NASA intends to exploit the issue of corruption to the maximum, especially as the President&rsquo;s sister and two cousins were variously named in the Health scam. A number of the President&rsquo;s associates have also been mentioned in other corruption scandals.Another is the ongoing Chinese funded mega-projects and over-borrowing by the Exchequer. Contractors from China are believed to be experts at paying kick-backs on projects under their watch. They are not bound by the strict anti-graft laws that encumber European and American contractors. They have snapped up all the large contracts in Kenya and persons known and unknown must be benefitting from the gravy train. NASA is planning a full frontal assault on the Jubilee government and does not intend to take any prisoners.