One of my favourite movie series is Prison Break. Spoiler Alert! In Season Five, main character Michael Scofield shares a cell with a drug addict, who is experiencing serious withdrawal symptoms. He also happens to own a contraband cell phone that Scofieldl urgently needs to use. He agrees to trade the call with drugs. So Scofield makes a fire with a stick of gum, then heats a piece of cloth over the fire and ties it around his head and succeeds in faking a fever. His cellmates call out to the guards, who immediately rush him to the infirmary. Once there, he steals drugs that he later exchanges with his cellmate as agreed.Now in reality, Scofield was not sick. However, he did exhibit signs of a fever. His forehead felt hot. But that symptom was externally and artificially engineered. This is exactly what happens when government tries to control prices. A price is not a switch that determines the value of something. Rather, it is a standard of measurement that reflects its worth. So by controlling the price of something, you distort the signals that determine worth. Similarly, artificially controlling how hot your forehead feels does not cause a fever. This is because the temperature is externally and artificially induced.Talk is cheap, and especially election promises. This is because campaigns are a marketing process, where candidates differentiate themselves from their competitors by making all manner of pledges. The country witnessed this last week. NASA flagbearer Raila Odinga advocated price controls. During the ODM National Delegates Conference, Raila promised to reduce house rent once elected President. Sadly, this was only a promise. And promises are made to be broken. And Raila will break this promise. Not because he is a bad man or because he wants to, but because this form of distributive justice is a very bad idea. Allow me to explain, but first a short history lesson.The earliest recording of rent controls was after World War I. During the war, very minimal construction occurred. So when the veterans returned home, there were few houses available for rent in the city. Subsequently, the rental prices skyrocketed in response to the demand. As a means to cushion the veterans from these high prices, housing was declared an emergency. As a result, the government put a cap on how much landlords could charge as rent. It is easy for any government to cap the price of commodities such as unga or interest rates. This is because the metric of measurement is the same anywhere under the Sun. Two kilos in Timbuktu is the same as two kilos in Bondo. The 14 per cent interest rate in Copenhagen is the same as 14 per cent in Kiharu. However, a 2-bedroom house in Kilimani is not the same as a 2-bedroom house in Kibera. So let us fast forward to August 9 and assume Raila is Kenya&rsquo;s fifth President. And being the pragmatic guy he is, he decrees that the rent of all 2-bedroom houses will not exceed Sh2, 000. Several unintended consequences would beleaguer this noble intention. The first would be what type of housing would fall under this criterion? Is it a mabati, brick, cardboard or a mud house? A rural or urban one? One with or without electricity or running water? And how would this decree be enforced on landlords who are private citizens? Is there legislation in place to deter or punish defaulters? Another unintended consequence is the Dutch disease. When government compels landlords to charge rents that do not give them a return on their investments, the natural response would be attrition from the real estate sector, and diversion of their investments to more profitable sectors. The ripple effect would be felt along the housing value chain. So if you are celebrating this rent control pledge, pray that you do not work in the cement, glass or mortgage industry because you might just be cheering yourself out of a job. Should these investors choose to remain in this industry, they would opt to build high-end housing for the wealthy, where they are likely to fetch more on their investments. This, in essence, would cause a shortage of the very housing that the poor desire to occupy. The shortage would birth a black market where the highest &lsquo;key money&rsquo; bidder becomes the tenant. Consequently, those that cannot raise the deposit would not be able to secure any house to rent. Additionally, rent controls deny landlords incentives to upgrade or repair their houses. Resultantly, tenants persevere living in squalor.As earlier stated, rent control is a form of government interventionism. This is when government over extends its functions and interferes with market phenomena, thus distorting market prices. And interventionism begets more interventionism. The only way a government can influence prices is if it was a player in the very market itself. So let&rsquo;s suppose Raila would direct his government to build two million houses in Konza. Naturally, every Kenyan would desire to occupy these low-cost government houses. His first headache would be apportioning. How will the tenants be selected? Will it be the single-headed women households? The disabled? Exactly who? Second, will the selected tenants change their children&rsquo;s schools or relocate their employers closer to their residences? Not likely. So other factors holding constant, the man-hours spent commuting to and from work would be unbearable. The matatu fares would hike and more money would be spent on fuel. Ultimately, the amount they would have saved on rent would be expended on other necessities. To solve this problem, Raila would probably ask his government to build more roads. And where would the resources come from? Higher taxes. Do you now see how government interventionism only begets more? Rent controls only leave the poor worse off than they originally were.Government is best which governs least &ndash; Thomas PaineMugwe is a political economist