Kenya Airways board has made good its pledge of hiring an expatriate to turnaround recovering national carrier, Kenya Airways. The board said yesterday it has settled on Poland national, Sebastian Mikosz, as the best candidate among the four it had shortlisted for the hot seat. &ldquo;I am pleased to announce the board has finally reached a unanimous decision in this matter,&rdquo; Kenya Airways chairman Michael Joseph said in a statement yesterday. His appointment ends a more than five-month search for a replacement of the outgoing CEO Mbuvi Ngunze. In December 2016, the board engaged the services of an international search firm, Spencer Stuart, to assist in identifying his successor. Ngunze was set to leave the helm of KQ on March 31 as announced by Joseph on November 24, last year, but was prevailed upon to stay on to oversee implementation of the airline&rsquo;s turnaround strategy. KQ, as it is known by its international code, will now leverage on Mikosz&rsquo;s over 20 years of professional experience in executive management, in private and public sector, to help turn around the loss-making national carrier. He is a former president and CEO of LOT Polish Airline, one of the oldest airlines in the world. He had two stints as the head of the airline, including an in-depth turnaround of the company leading to its first profit in 2013 for the first time since 2008. &ldquo;We have no doubt that under his leadership and guidance the airline, with support of management and the board, the airline will strive to greater heights and achievements as well as continue to regain its altitude as the &ldquo;pride of Africa,&rdquo; Joseph said.The board was keen to get an expatriate &ldquo;with a turnaround experience in the sector&rdquo; according to Joseph sentiments in November last year. He is a former CEO of eSky.pl, the leading central Europe online travel agent. He has also held the position of director in Deloitte Business Consulting Warsaw office and vice-president of the Polish Information and Foreign Investment Agency, a governmental agency responsible for attracting foreign investors to Poland. His entry brings to an end Ngunze&rsquo;s five-year stint at the national carrier.He joined the airline as chief operating officer in September 2011, before succeeding Titus Naikuni as CEO in November 2014.