With a national population of about 46 million, every Kenyan is set to owe China Sh18,413 in the standard gauge railway debt once the latest deal is sealed.The portion of Kenya&rsquo;s external debt denominated in Chinese currency nearly doubled between September and December 2016, pushed up by a Sh20.7 billion semi-concessional loan disbursement from Beijing, a local daily reported earlier this week.China is currently Kenya&rsquo;s largest bilateral lender and we owe her Sh361.6 billion, which equates to 19.4 per cent of the total external debt in the second quarter of the 2016-17 financial year. Total external debt stood at Sh1.83 trillion at the end of 2016.This doesn&rsquo;t look good. We have borrowed heavily from the Chinese to fund mega infrastructure projects. President Uhuru Kenyatta went back to China last week, seeking an additional Sh370 billion to extend the SGR from Naivasha to Kisumu, pushing the total cost of his pet project to Sh847 billion.The government has also requested China to provide fresh financial support for the Eastern and Northern bypasses.China was the fourth state to open an embassy in Nairobi, after Independence. It was though not until President Mwai Kibaki took over that China&rsquo;s impact begun to be felt. The Chinese have heavily invested in the infrastructure and communication sectors in thi scountry. They have offered assistance in power generation, roads and railway construction and expansion of sports facilities and airports and so forth. China has increased its grants too. It is the Look East Policy.Prof. Amb.Maria Nzomo, Director of Institute of Diplomacy and International Studies (IDIS) notes that China&rsquo;s interests in Africa are mainly raw materials, search for market for her manufactured products as well as source of energy security. These are interests that get me really concerned. The international system is anarchical and every state acts to pursue its own interests. It is by this, that in my opinion, China formed the Forum for China Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) in 2000. Since then, China has made huge strides and one of this is the One Belt One Road initiative. One of its six components or corridors is the Maritime Silk Road. It is aimed at investing and fostering collaboration in Southeast Asia, Oceania, and North Africa. I insist China has her own interests to pursue, be it power influence, political or economic but the fact is, she has to gain too. I would compare these to the Structural Adjustment Programmes of the 1990s and consequently note, what Kenya is doing is to accumulate what has previously been described as high interest Shylock -like loans for which failure to pay back has serious repercussions. Kenya risks choking on the heavy loans, given China is one of the most expensive market for loans.The Belt and Road Initiative is expected to bridge the 'infrastructure gap' and thus accelerate economic growth across the Asia Pacific area and Central and Easter Europe. This plan underlines China's push to take a bigger role in global affairs. Important to note is that the One Belt One Road has been compared with the two US-centric trading arrangements &ndash; the Trans-Pacific Partnership and the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership. Second, almost all construction works, say railway and roads both in Nigeria and Kenya, have been awarded to the China Railway Construction Corporation through government to government sourcing. That means, a large chunk of these so-called grants will finally end up back to China through these multinationals. It is also important to note that the engineers and machine used are Chinese and Chinese made respectively.The visit by China&rsquo;s Premier Li Keqiang to the country, one that was marked as a &ldquo;historic state visit&rdquo; saw a number of &ldquo;deals&rdquo; signed and apart from the highly publicised Sh314 billion railway deal, China also offered Sh170 billion for a China-Africa Development Bank, Sh748 million for Humanitarian Assistance in Sudan and Sh880 million for wildlife Conservation. Quite noble, isn&rsquo;t it? I also noted these figures differed in different print media. What they didn&rsquo;t tell us is that they also signed an Economic and Technical Co-operation loan of undisclosed value and &ldquo;interest free loans&rdquo; of undisclosed fee. Why should it remain &lsquo;undisclosed&rsquo;?I would compare this to the Structural Adjustment Programmes of the 1990s and consequently note, what Kenya is doing is to accumulate what has previously been described as high interest Shylock type of loans of which failure to pay back has serious repercussions. Kenya risks choking in the heavy loans given China is one of the most expensive market for loans.Our Chinese debt is getting out of hand. The worst part is, based on its status, China dictates almost all aspects &mdash; terms and conditions of these loans since Kenya has already lost leverage in these transactions.&ldquo;Unlike the conditions given by the IMF and other multinational lenders, China is simply looking for business and the more projects they get, the easier they lend Kenya. They are very costly loans though and Kenya is definitely tying its future generations in heavy indebtedness that could have been avoided by taking other options,&rdquo; Economic analyst Robert Shaw told the Nation in August lat year.John Perkins in his book, Confessions of an Economic Hit man wrote,&rdquo; I am certain that when enough of us become aware of how we are being exploited by the economic engines that create an insatiable appetite for the world&rsquo;s resources and results in systems that foster slavery, we will no longer tolerate it. We will reassess our world where a few swim in riches and the majority drown in poverty, pollution and violence. We will commit ourselves to navigating a course towards compassion, democracy and social justice for all&rdquo;. Kibii comments on current and international affairs