The only unbeaten record in the SportPesa Premier league this season will be on the line this weekend when third-placed Ulinzi Stars play host to a Posta Rangers side that is yet to be defeated in their eleven matches of the 2017 campaign. Sammy Omollo&rsquo;s mailmen have emerged as contender for this year&rsquo;s title alongside the soldiers and with only two points separating them from top spot, they could enhance their reputation with a victory over a side that has also been tipped to challenge for the title.Ulinzi will be confident of erasing Posta&rsquo;s record at Afraha Stadium in Nakuru, having also enjoyed a run of seven matches without defeat.Forward Stephen Waruru will lead the soldiers attack in a week that has seen them return to the international fold after a series of top goal-scoring performances for Ulinzi.Posta, however, with Simon Mbugua and Joakins Atudo in their defence, will be confident of keeping him under wraps and their reputation of having the meanest defence intact. Today though champions Tusker take on a Mathare United side that is reeling from three successive defeats and starting at a potential relegation battle. The slum boys are only a point above the drop zone and anything other than victory today might see them fall into the dreaded zone. Also facing a crisis of confidence are AFC Leopards who have yet to win a match in their last four encounters, a situation that has heaped pressure on the squad ahead of today&rsquo;s clash with Kakamega Homeboyz in Mumias. &ldquo;Our problem is on set pieces. It could be positioning and it could be lack of concentration, but we have to work on handling set pieces because we have conceded goals from set pieces in four consecutive games. That is not acceptable,&rdquo; said Kitambi. &ldquo;Against Zoo, the boys played according to instructions in the first 20 minutes but didn&rsquo;t come back strongly in the second half and we rightly conceded the goal. &ldquo;After we conceded, we became too anxious and forgot that we were supposed to play the ball down. We kept playing the ball forward due to the pressure and it is by good luck that we found the equaliser. &ldquo;Fiamenyo is a special player when he turns up,&rdquo; said assistant coach Dennis Kitambi in the wake of their last gasp draw with Zoo Kericho. &ldquo;Zoo themselves will look to build up on their recent good run when they host Bandari at the Green Stadium in Kericho.&rdquo;