The battle lines are drawn for the Nairobi woman rep race after the IEBC yesterday cleared four aspirants.Incumbent Rachel Shebesh of Jubilee Party was taken by amblance to the Kasarani Stadium, where the county IEBC officials received nomination documents, to seek clearance to defend her seat.She was admitted at Nairobi Hospital a week ago with a leg injury. Shebesh told journalists she was cut by barbed wire two weeks ago. &ldquo;I went to the hospital and got tetanus injection. After some days, I started feeling unwell,&rdquo; she said.&ldquo;When I went to the hospital, I was told that my wound had become septic and that I had to choose between losing my leg or politics. I chose my health.&rdquo; Shebesh was in a wheelchair.She was accompanied by her husband Frank, children, and parents Samuel and Anne Mbugua. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m overwhelmed and humbled by what my family and supporters have done for me. I hope to see my people in two weeks,&rdquo; Shebesh said.ODM&rsquo;s Esther Passaris was among the four who were cleared. Passaris, who is running for political office for a fourth time, tried to have the name Rosanna removed from the ballot, but failed.But county returning officer Joseph Mele said the name appears in her ID card and urged her to seek help from the Office of the Registrar of Persons.&ldquo;In the ID, my name appears as Esther Muthoni Rossana Passaris. Rossana is a Christian name I was given during baptism, but I want to drop it because people don&rsquo;t know it. Esther is also a Christian name,&rdquo; Passaris said.Eleven aspirants have expressed interest in the seat. Passaris said, &ldquo;Each of the 11 aspirants is a threat to each other. So I cannot say that so and so is a threat to me, because politics change.&rdquo; Nadya Khan of Maendeleo Chap Chap and Rehab Ndambuki of Wiper were also cleared.Aspirants expected to submit their papers today are Cecilia Nthenya (independent), Khadija Ruguru (Mzalendo Saba Saba Party), Michelle Nduta (independent), Teresia Omolo (PDU), Wangui Nganga (independent), Winnie Wanja (PNU) and Rosemary Wairimu (independent).