House prices increased by 1.10 per cent between January and March compared to 1.58 per cent in the last quarter of 2016, a quarterly survey by banking industry lobby showed yesterday. Kenya Bankers Association Housing Price Index report partly attributed the slowdown to capping of interest rates under the banking (Amendment) Act 2016. The survey suggested that the amended law, which came into force on September 14, has constrained credit to the private sector and households to buy houses. KBA chief executive Habil Olaka said this has softened house prices due to low demand as most buyers depend on long-term loans such as mortgages. “The unintended consequences of the law continues to manifest themselves on both the supply side and the demand side of the housing market. Sustained slowdown in the pace of new credit provision in the last two quarters are highly likely to negatively impact on the demand for houses,” Olaka said. A quarterly survey by HassConsult, released on April 24, also indicated asking prices for detached houses dropped by 0. 2 per cent in the quarter while semi-detached houses recorded a 0.4 per cent drop. KBA, however, noted that during the first quarter of the year, residential property prices rose slightly against a suppressed demand due to reduced lending by commercial banks. Apartments had the highest demand among units offered in the market during the period, accounting for 75.72 per cent of the units sold. Maisonettes and bungalows accounted for 16.46 per cent and 7.82 per cent of the total sales, respectively. Nairobi’s outskirts and satellite towns are among the most preferred areas for purchasing houses, according to the KBA index. They are Athi River, Mlolongo, Ngong, Ruaka, Syokimau, Ruiru, Kiambu, Kinoo, Kitengela and Mavoko. Others are Thika, Mtwapa, Kiembeni (Mombasa), Nyeri,Eldoret, Meru and Bungoma. The size of the unit remained the key price driver, the survey established. This entails the number of bedrooms, bathrooms, presence of backyard, garage, parking lot, master ensuite, balcony and separate dining area. “Whereas the supply and demand dynamics have had an equal influence on the house prices trend, the key driver of the softening seen during the first quarter and the preceding two quarters lean more towards market demand conditions,” KBA research and policy director Jared Osoro said.