Ministry of Energy and Petroleum on Friday inked a deal with London Stock Exchange Group to help raise capital for developing the country's nascent oil and gas sector.The cash will be raised through public listing of equity or debt, the two entities said in a statement. The memorandum of understanding also &ldquo;lays out both parties&rsquo; plans to assemble key stakeholders to establish an effective dual-listing framework for equity listings in London and Nairobi&rdquo;. Energy CS Charles Keter said it was time Kenya started developing world-class energy infrastructure after the progress she has made in petroleum exploration. British explorer Tullow and its partners in blocks 13T and 10BB &ndash; Canadian African Oil Corporation and business conglomerate Maersk of Denmark &ndash; have discovered more than 760 million recoverable oil reserves in south Turkana. The country will be scouting for investors to help build a crude oil pipeline from oilfields in south Turkana to proposed Lamu port at an estimated cost of $2.1 billion (about Sh216.95 billion). &ldquo;Our partnership with London Stock Exchange Group is driven by our realisation that energy infrastructure projects are very capital-intensive and mobilisation of capital is critical to providing clean, sustainable, affordable, competitive and secure energy required for Kenya to improve its industrial performance,&rdquo; Keter said in the statement. &ldquo;We believe that this partnership will be able to help us mobilise the capital required to accelerate the pace of energy infrastructure development in Kenya which will in turn drive our country to achieve its full industrial potential.&rdquo; London Stock Exchange chief executive Nikhil Rathi said the country's energy industry holds &ldquo;enormous potential for growth&rdquo;.&ldquo;Part of London Stock Exchange Group&rsquo;s mission is to boost access to growth capital for companies from across the world,&rdquo; Rathi said. &ldquo;With 106 African companies listed on our markets, we are uniquely placed to be working in partnership with the Kenyan government towards this aim.&rdquo; Keter urged investors to partner with the government in building and developing energy infrastructure. The deal followed the launch of London Stock Exchange Group&rsquo;s inaugural &lsquo;Companies to Inspire Africa&rsquo; report in Nairobi on May 11. The two said in a statement the agreement &ldquo;further strengthens business ties between the UK and Kenya&rdquo;.