Wiper and Ford Kenya leaders have told ODM not to field governor, senator, MP, woman representativeand MCA candidates in their perceived strongholds.Led by Wiper&rsquo;s Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula of Ford Kenya, they said on Monday this was agreed when ODM leader Raila Odinga was named NASA flagbearer.They spoke at Posta Grounds, Bungoma, at a NASA rally that locked out ODM members and leaders.Kalonzo said NASA agreed to rally their supporters to vote for Raila for President, while NASA-affiliates get other seats in their strongholds. He said ODM should honour the deal.&ldquo;With all due respect, this is not a matter for deliberation. It&rsquo;s all on record in our accord and it&rsquo;s common sense Wetang&rsquo;ula is a co-principal in NASA, who shelved his presidential ambition for the ODM leader. In turn, ODM must shelve its ambitions for other seats in his Western home turf, especially here in Bungoma,&rdquo; Kalonzo said.ODM has fielded candidates in perceived Ford Kenya strongholds, Bungoma and Kakamega. In Bungoma, Alfred Khang&rsquo;ati will run for governor on the ODM ticket. He will face Ford Kenya&rsquo;s Wycliffe Wangamati. In Kakamega, ODM Governor Wycliffe Oparanya will defend his seat against Ford Kenya&rsquo;s Boni Khalwale.STEP ASIDE FOR WETAKhalwale asked Bungoma ANC senator hopeful David Makali and his ODM counterpart Bonny Nyongesa to shelve their ambitions in favour of Wetang&rsquo;ula.On Monday, the IEBC cleared Wetang&rsquo;ula for reelection, minutes after Nyongesa was cleared. Makali was cleared on Sunday and said he&rsquo;s ready to face Wetang&rsquo;ula.Wetang&rsquo;ula said he will not campaign for himself but for Raila countrywide. He said he will leave his Senate campaigns to his Ford Kenya brigade. They will be led by MPs Wafula Wamunyinyi (Kanduyi) and Eseli Simiyu of Tongaren.Khalwale said NASA&rsquo;s mistake was not telling ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi that Wetang&rsquo;ula would run for reelection. He said this was why he fielded Makali for the position.&ldquo;We apologise to our brother Mudavadi and we ask him to tell Makali to step down out of respect for Wetang&rsquo;ula. When NASA forms the next government, Makali will be considered for the position when Wetang&rsquo;ula steps down to take his government position,&rdquo; he said. In the NASA lineup, Wetang&rsquo;ula would be deputy Premier Cabinet Secretary and in charge of Public Service.Khalwale also asked Nyongesa to step down, saying NASA will appoint him to government.Kalonzo also urged the Bukusus to stay united and loyal NASA to enable the alliance to send Jubilee home &ldquo;for having made life unbearable for Kenyans by raising the prices of basic commodities&rdquo;.REVIEW ALL CHINESE CONTRACTSWetang&rsquo;ula said if NASA forms the next government, they will rescue Kenya from Jubilee&rsquo;s poor leadership. He said NASA will review all contracts Jubilee signed with Chinese firms. Wetang&rsquo;ula asked the IEBC to conduct its referee job well to ensure Kenyans elect leaders of their choice.