The Left used to be a strong force in the politics of the US, right up to the end of the Vietnam War in the mid-1970s. Some have argued that Henry Kissinger pulled the rug from below the feet of the Left when, as Secretary of State, he negotiated successfully in Paris with Le Duc Tho, his Vietnamese counterpart, to end the war. On the other hand, the Left argued it is the US government that lost the war to both the Left and the Vietcong guerillas who, without the Left mobilising the American public against the war, would have fought a much longer battle to bring the US army to its knees. History actually proves the Left to have been corrent. Even Kissinger, in a 1985 debate with Le Duc Tho &mdash; during the 10th anniversary of the Vietcong victory &mdash; conceded this point. But where is the American Left today given the horrible things happening in Syria, Iran and Pakistan? Where is the American Left as South Sudan burns to ashes and President Donald Trump rolls back the war on climate change? Whose funeral are we mourning at: That of the Left or that of imperialism? Where is the labour movement and what happened to the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations?Having spent two weeks in the US this month, I am shocked at the very low-key politics of the Left. Anger is mounting on one issue: Anti-Trumpism. But anti-Trumpism seems a mishmash of all kinds of issues bringing together a broad section of Americans fed up with Trump&rsquo;s violation of what they call &ldquo;basic American values&rdquo; and undermining &ldquo;the trust in the presidency.&rdquo; Here, the Left has no monopoly; It mingles happily with liberals, moral high grounders, decent Americans, people who call themselves progressives and those who have never trusted Trump anyway.The Left missed an important opportunity. This was the candidacy of Senator Bernie Sanders for the presidency on the Democratic Party ticket. The Democratics have always been the party in which the Left most feels at home. When the Democrats came out in the industrial north and north east to fully support the Civil Rights movement and the African American cause in the 1960s, the party was rightfully the home of Left politics without necessarily embracing all the left issues. Hence the acrimony at the 1968 Democratic Party Convention in Chicago. Such an acrimony could have occurred once more at the Democratic Party Convention in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, in 2016, had Bernie Sanders mobilised his forces to strongly force a left agenda on the party platform; but he didn&rsquo;t. And the Left, not having a coherent national strategy, capitulated even before the convention. By staying home and not voting, the Bernie Sanders coalition of the Left youth, middle class and some parts of the working class actually handed over the presidency to this &ldquo;grotesque mediocrity&rdquo; called Trump.Just remember what Karl Marx observed in the coup that propelled Louis Napoleon Bonaparte into power after the 1799 French Revolution. In the &ldquo;Eighteenth Brumaire of Louis Bonaparte&rdquo;, Marx wrote an essay whose purpose was &ldquo;to demonstrate how the class struggle in France created circumstances and relationships that made it possible for a grotesque mediocrity, Louis Napoleon Bonaparte, could play a hero&rsquo;s part as a ruler in a coup after the Revolution of 1799.&rdquo; What has the class struggle in the USA done to the Left? What political, social and economic relationships explain the rise of this grotesque man, Trump, to the presidency of the US!As we write today, the Left, as such, exists as an intellectual tradition. It is a body of ideas and an interpretation of global affairs which seeks to give Americans an alternative world view in which market economics is not the only way by which social and economic relations can be organised in this world. People do not just make choices freely: Choice making is historically and structurally determined. There is only a limited space and time within which a graduate in commerce stands a chance of finding a job in a blue chip company. This is neither given by the market nor does it, like manna, fall from heaven. The opportunity becomes even more limited for a child born in a poor neighborhood in the Bronx in New York.But even as an intellectual tradition, I have found that the debate on the Left is weakening in the US. Its medium of expression is becoming scant; the icons of the debate are no longer well-known by college students; if the icons are there, they downplay their intellectual fire power by lack of &mdash; or perhaps avoidance of &mdash; political activism. The Harry Magdoffs and the Paul Sweezys of the Monthly Review Press are no longer on the lips of college students, nor do they talk about the New Left Review.Discussing &ldquo;democracy and the market&rdquo; will only arise if it is an assigned reading for a course. Very few students will venture on their own to know that my old professor, Adam Przeworski, has written extensively on this and as someone on the Left that is useful knowledge. But I am actually overreaching myself, these students are not really people in the Left as such: They simply appreciate the literature as course assignments. Harry Braverman wrote Labour and Monopoly Capital: The Degradation of Work in the Twentieth Century at a time when both the Labour and the Left movement were still very strong. In this age of technology and de-industrialisation in capitalist America, someone should write The Decimation of the Working Class in De-Industrialising America in the Age of High Technology to explain why such a grotesque rogue can ride on populism and xenophobic nostrums to rule such a highly developed society.What happened to the Left and what did the Left leave for the young generation of today? I really don&rsquo;t know but I am searching to know.Perhaps it is a global phenomenon where too many issues have been globalised and conservatives are offering narrow nationalist solutions which seem easier to grasp by the ordinary human being. The instant coffee machine, the blow drier, the mobile phone, the Internet, CNN and the hot water bottle are now within the reach of almost everybody, rich and poor. If you don&rsquo;t have a television in your house, it is with an uncle; if the uncle does not have it, you can watch it for free in the supermarket when you want to, or in the social hall at the marketplace. What really worries you is food, health, drinking water and the thugs who can rob you of the little you have. Anybody who promises you food, access to health, security and a job which is key to many things is definitely your friend. That is how Trump trapped the Left, and grabbed the masses from them with a right wing jab! Look at how &ldquo;the friends of the people behave and how they fight the social democrats!&rdquo;But now is the time the Left can come back and fight these &ldquo;friends of the people&rdquo; such as Trump. Let us not underestimate the politics of the &ldquo;moral high grounders&rdquo;. There is something very revolutionary about &ldquo;the rights of man&rdquo; and the inviolability of constitutionalism in a democratic society. Mwalimu Julius Nyerere once said that the Constitution of the Republic of Tanzania gave him so much power as President that were he to fully exploit and exercise those powers, he would be the worst dictator in Africa. That must also apply to US Presidents. Strictly speaking, the Constitution of the US may as well give Trump the power to fire James Comey as the FBI director when he did. But did he have good enough reasons to do so? Wasn&rsquo;t it within his power to send the Attorney General to seek some explanations from Comey before taking such a drastic action? What does justice according to law say, and what does judicial justice prescribe in this regard? Are we dealing with Constitutionalism here without a constitutionalist in the person of Trump?The Left is there to interpret and implement the Constitution in the best interest of all of us, be it Comey or the poor Black man stopped by police to be frisked just because of his skin colour. The law may indeed give the police the power to do so. But must that be done repeatedly as a result of racial profiling? Must President Trump be allowed to develop an attitude of disdainfulness toward other apparatuses of the state? With so much power, isn&rsquo;t he likely to grow into the worst dictator in the history of the US, a Louis Bonaparte exploiting the desperate situation of the disaffected White working class population in the &ldquo;Rust Belt&rdquo;? Who should frame the language of this discourse: The moral high grounders or the Left?