Deputy President William Ruto on Thursday asked Ukambani and western leaders to market Jubilee Party in their areas. Ruto assigned the group the responsibility to sell the party’s manifesto for the August 8 polls. He told the leaders during separate meetings at his Karen office, Nairobi that their job will be easy since Jubilee has fulfilled its development agenda. "We are proud of our scorecard. That is why we challenge our friends in the opposition to tell us what they did for Kenyans when they were in government instead of the rhetoric we are used to," Ruto said. The western delegation was led by Bungoma Governor Ken Lusaka and included MPs Boniface Otsiula (Bumula), John Waluke (Sirisia), Bernard Shinali (Ikolomani), Benjamin Washiali (Mumias East), Reginalda Wanyonyi (Bungoma), Mary Emase (Teso South), Arthur Odera (Teso North), Malulu Injendi (Malava) and Emmanuel Wangwe (Navakholo). The Kamba delegation included MPs Victor Munyaka (Machakos Town), Kisoi Munyao (Mbooni), Benson Mbai (Masinga), Regina Ndambuki (Kilome), John Munuve (Mwingi North), Rachel Nyamai (Kitui South) and Joe Mutambo (Mwingi Central). Ruto said opposition parties can only thrive on propaganda to confuse Kenyans because they have nothing new to offer. "We have the advantage because you can talk about roads, health, education, electricity and several other projects that we have implemented in the region." The DP said he was confident Jubilee will triumph in the general elections. "In the last election, we didn’t have strong candidates like you. There is a clear indication that we are going to win in western and Kamba votes this time round," he said. He urged Kenyans to support Jubilee because it was committed to peace, unity, and development. "I have no doubt in my mind that we have much more superior agenda to take this country to the next level than our competitors." The Deputy President said Jubilee was ready to account what it has done for the four years in office. "The opposition should compete with us on issues. This is what competition is all about," he added. The leaders said they will campaign vigorously for the Jubilee Party to win the polls. Lusaka assured the DP that the team was committed to delivering more votes for the party. "I want to assure you that this team will do its best to deliver more votes for the party during the August election," Lusaka said. "Jubilee has done more than Kenyans expected in terms of development projects in the short period it has been in office," Washiali said. Nyamai said the Kamba community was ready to embrace Jubilee Party. She said this will be especially now that the National Super Alliance (NASA) has not given Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka the ticket. The coalition settled on ODM's Raila Odinga as its presidential standard bearer after months of intense negotiations. [VIDEO] Raila named NASA flag bearer, Kalonzo deputy in August poll line up Read: How Wetangula, Rutto made Raila the Nasa flagbearer "There is a protest among the Kamba community after NASA failed to heed its calls to have Kalonzo appointed flag bearer," she said. Ndambuki said the Kamba community will not be misled to support parties with no agenda for them. "Our people are ready to support Jubilee because it has their interest at heart," Ndambuki said.    