The choice of Polycarp Igathe as Mike Sonko&rsquo;s running mate is not surprising.Remember the Kikuyu is the largest tribe in Nairobi and politics in Kenya is tribal. So we just have to accept it: It&rsquo;s a fact. For me, it&rsquo;s not surprising that they have settled on somebody from Central Kenya. That is the political reality.It&rsquo;s the position Jubilee Party has taken and everything must be done in the larger interest of the ruling party. In politics, you have to be pragmatic and practical.First of all, I must say that Polycarp is very good material. And he will complement, and very strongly so, the managerial and corporate gaps that probably were missing in my very good friend Mike Sonko. So that gap has been filled.But public office is very different from the private sector. Sonko has been a politician, not an administrative or strategic manager. But, as I have said, this is where Igathe comes in.However, one would have expected that Jubilee would go for representing and presenting the Face of Kenya factor. Now the scales seem to be tilted towards a certain direction. Our hope and prayer was that the Face of Kenya would have been presented. Moving forward, that delicate balance, taking the vital interests of the various regions to present the Face of Kenya, would be important.But if you look at the ODM side, they have completely, terribly failed. Because the NASA presidential candidate is a Luo from Nyanza, the deputy is a Kamba. When you come to the other powerful seat in terms of the pecking order, in terms of political clout, the governor of Nairobi, again, is a Luo, the deputy a Kamba.So even if Jubilee has made an error of judgement, they have balanced it. Neither side has been very accommodative. But I think it&rsquo;s worse on the NASA side, because the Luhya, being the second largest vote bloc in Nairobi, have completely been ignored. Out of 17 parliamentary seats, you find that the Luo tribe has been allocated almost everything and the Luhyas have only two slots.Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula should have negotiated properly, so that power is seen to be distributed among all the key players. I can tell you for free that Luhyas feel completely left out in NASA.Kisia is a former Nairobi Town Clerk