The government will today officially roll out Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP), an anti-retroviral drug for HIV-negative people who are at high risk, to prevent them from contracting the virus.The drug has been tested in Kenya and Uganda and recorded a 96 per cent efficacy with strict daily adherence. &ldquo;The demo project was conducted in Kenya and Uganda, where 4,758 HIV serodiscordant couples were put on the study and followed for 36 weeks,&rdquo; study physician Elizabeth Irungu said.Serodiscordant couples are those where one partner is HIV-positive and the other one is HIV-negative. Some 1,728 such couples took part in the trials in Kenya.There are more than 260,000 discordant couples in the country. Almost half of all new HIV infections occur in stable HIV discordant partnerships. In such a relationship, the negative person is at substantial ongoing risk, and they are among the people targeted for PReP.A COUPLE&rsquo;S EXPERIENCEJoel* and Jane* (not their real names) are a discordant couple. Jane, 23, is HIV-positive, while her husband, 30, is HIV-negative. She found out about her status in 2014 when, while coming from the market, she decided to walk into a VCT. &ldquo;I thought it was fun to get checked but to my surprise, the clinician told me i was positive,&rdquo; Jane said. &ldquo;I got confused and could not believe it at first. I even broke down since I did not know how to tell it to my husband and how he would react,&rdquo; she said.When her husband came home later that evening, Jane was crying uncontrollably. &ldquo;I could not understand what was happening since when I was leaving in the morning, we had not had any disagreements,&rdquo; Joel said.After persuading her for long, Jane agreed to open up. &ldquo;To my surprise, he was very composed. He comforted me and said we would go to a different VCT and have the test together,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;Deep within, I was troubled but I had to be there for her,&rdquo; Joel said.The following morning, they went for the test and Jane was found to be positive, while Joel was negative. &ldquo;That day was a nightmare. I knew I had lost my marriage. I could not figure out how, when or where I contracted the virus while my husband was negative.&rdquo;Jane remembers telling her husband to move on with his life since the two were now not compatible. By then, the two, who lived in Nairobi&rsquo;s Mukuru kwa Njenga, were parents to one child, who was taken for a check and came out negative.To their advantage, they got to know about their status at a time when the HIV prevention drug was being tested in the country.&ldquo;The clinician took us through intense counselling before telling us there was hope for us since there was a HIV prevention drug in the country which he said I could use and we continue to live happily as a couple,&rdquo; Joel said.They were then sent to the Partners Prep Study, a clinical research centre situated in Thika town, where they would be enrolled as demo projects. &ldquo;We were both put of drugs, mine was PReP and my wife was put on ARTs,&rdquo; Joel said.At first, Joel was reluctant since he could not understand why he was being treated while he was not sick. &ldquo;I could not get it. I told them i was not sick hence I shouldn&rsquo;t be taking drugs,&rdquo; Joel said.He would later be convinced after counselling and explanation on the importance of the drug. He said the journey has not been easy adding that his wife became too sensitive and he has had to learn what to say and what not to say.&ldquo;If I do something against her will, she blames it on her status,&rdquo; he said. The couple has since gotten their second baby, who is HIV-negative and energetic.&ldquo;Though when we go for clinics we are given condoms, I don&rsquo;t always use them and I can confidently say I am a PreP ambassador since I have seen the drug work on me for more than two years,&rdquo; Joel said.For fear of being stigmatised, the couple decided not to share the information with their families. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know what they will say if they get to know and that&rsquo;s why we decided to keep it among ourselves,&rdquo; Joel said.HOW IT WORKSPeter Michira, the technical adviser at Partners PrEP, Thika, says he worked with 486 discordant couples from the region and there were instances of separation since not both partners got to agree on sticking together, like in the case of Joel and Jane.&ldquo;Some couples ended up separating, with the negative one feeling threatened and unsafe,&rdquo; he said. The trial also covered 488 discordant couples from Eldoret, 269 from Kisumu and 485 from Nairobi.PreP is recommended for the whole population who are at substantial ongoing risk. This includes sex workers, people whose partners work in high HIV burden, those with a history of STIs, and people who consistently use Post-Exposure Prophylasis (PEP), a HIV prevention drugs prescribed after exposure.While explaining how PrEP works, clinical care consultant doctor Barbara Mambo of Nascop said to achieve optimal levels of protection, the drug must strictly be used for seven days before exposure to the virus.&ldquo;The drug must be taken everyday at the same time for a week,&rdquo; she said.PrEP works by creating a barrier from HIV getting into the cells. By blocking this entry, it prevents HIV from making more copies of itself in the body.The HIV-positive person is also put on anti-retroviral treatment until they acquire viral suppression. Though PrEP works best while combined with other HIV prevention methods like condoms, it is also safe to use when serodiscordant couples are attempting to conceive.Barbara said PrEP is safe to use during pregnancy and cannot lead to infertility. Though it is over 90 per cent effective, PrEP does not trigger immune response, so it is not a vaccine and also does not prevent other STIs.Scientists say the drug, which is taken orally, has very mild side-effects, but recommends users to stop if they experience low kidney function.&ldquo;Some people in the study recorded 14 days of discomfort with mild headaches, nausea, rash and loss of appetite,&rdquo; Barbara said.While responding to fears of the drug being misused, Barbara said though they have fears, they are hopeful that the drug will work for Kenya.&ldquo;We really don&rsquo;t want it to go the morning-after pills way, which ended up being misused, but we know something needs to be done, or else HIV infections will continue,&rdquo; she said.Dr Elizabeth Irungu urged Kenyans to make PrEP famous to fight stigma.&ldquo;No one gets worried by seeing someone with a packet of condoms. It should be the same with PrEP; you are only protecting yourself. Lets stop the stigma,&rdquo; she said.Through the Health ministry, PrEP with be offered free of charge, while if purchased from private hospitals, the original drugs will cost Sh3,700 and generic equivalent will cost Sh412.