Pokots have alerted Turkanas to prepare for a “massive bloody” retaliatory attack after 13 people were killed in Kapedo on Saturday. The area borders the Baringo and Turkana counties They vowed to attack the Turkanas, saying the government has not responded to the attacks and seven bodies are still lying in the bush in Akwichatis. A source from the Pokot community, who sought anonymity, disclosed this to the Star on the phone yesterday. He said it has become a routine for Pokots to retaliate anytime their people are killed by armed bandits from the neighbouring pastoral communities, among them Tugen, Turkana, Ilchamus and Marakwet. “Pokots cannot allow their people to die like rats, neither do they rest until they make sure a number of people from the other communities die,” he said. On Saturday, suspected Turkanas, who were armed with guns and pangas, attacked Kapedo shopping centre, killing six Pokot residents and injuring three others, among them women and children. The source said the Turkana bandits killed seven more in Akwichatis village. This brought the total of those killed to 13. He said tension is high in Kapedo, after the Pokots who had lived peacefully with the Turkanas fled to Silale, Akwichatis and Ripko in East Pokot. The source said the rivalry started after a Pokot herder shot and killed a Turkana man, who allegedly attempted to steal his goats in Lokori, Turkana county, last Friday. Angry Turkana warriors carried out retaliatory attacks against Pokots in Kapedo. “Armed Turkana bandits came to Kapedo carrying guns in sacks. They sprayed bullets on people indiscriminately,” witness Lomudang Domonyang said. Two of the injured are admitted at Chemolingot Hospital in Tiaty, while a middle-aged woman was referred to the Baringo County Referral Hospital in Kabarnet town on Sunday. According to Lokoiyama Kang’idumei, who accompanied her sister to the hospital, they do not know what led to the attacks. Victim Collins Naseri’s brother accused the government of failing to provide adequate security to residents. “Security officers took time to respond and that’s what led to the deaths,” said Naseri. Baringo police commander Peter Ndung’u did not confirm the deaths, but he said officers and KDF have been sent to the area.