Lewa Wildlife Conservancy is a wonderful place for a high-end safari. With just six safari camps, guests visiting the 62,000-acre wilderness need not worry about overcrowding by too many safari vans. The conservancy has a large variety of wildlife, possibly only exceeded by the Maasai Mara. Much of the wildlife is in the open grassland. Big herds of buffalo mingle near groups of eland, Africa&rsquo;s largest antelope. The Thomson gazelles look tiny compared to the Beisa oryx with their impressively long, sharp horns. Elephants regularly move through Lewa on their way from Laikipia to Mt Kenya, passing through specially designated wildlife corridors in the conservancy&rsquo;s perimeter fence. The reticulated giraffe like to browse in the forests of yellow-fever acacias and are often in the company of zebras, impalas, and the odd bull elephant. The waterbucks naturally prefer the wetlands where Egyptian geese, grey herons and other water birds are to be found. There is a healthy population of lions and cheetah, which are fairly easy to spot as well.Lewa Conservancy has achieved notable success in the conservation of rhino and it is home to 15 per cent of Kenya&rsquo;s rhinos. The black rhino, which feed on leaves, prefer to stay among the bushes, whereas the white rhino generally graze in the expansive grass plains. Early morning is the best time to take a game drive, with the outline of Mt Kenya clearly visible in the eastern skies. The open-sided game drive vehicles used by the lodges make you feel much closer to nature. For those on a longer stay, a full-day visit to the neighbouring Ngare Ndare Forest Reserve is recommended. Being a private conservancy, some of the lodges will organise guided walks and bush meals. Watching a spectacular sunset in the bush whilst sipping cocktails and nibbling on bites is not to be missed. Lewa was originally a private cattle ranch of the Craig family that settled here from Britain in the 1920s. In 1995 it was converted into a wildlife conservancy. It takes four hours by road from Nairobi to Lewa and there are daily flights from Wilson Airport. LOCATION: Meru countyContacts: [email&#160;protected]; 0722-203562/3Star rating: 4/5