The government appears to blame the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission for the seven-month delay of the Sh5 billion Afya House probe.Spokesman Eric Kiraithe said no one was ever charged with misuse of funds because no investigating agency has completed investigations, seven months later. &ldquo;The government called in the EACC and other agencies, they are still working,&rdquo; Kiraithe told journalists yesterday. He insisted no one would be spared once investigations are completed. &ldquo;In the fullness of time anyone who stole money will face the law,&rdquo; Kiraithe said. A internal audit report leaked in October last year revealed state officials may have embezzled close to Sh5 billion, including money meant for newborn babies and poor people living with HIV. EACC detectives raided Afya House and carted away files, promising to make prosecutions within two weeks, if indeed any money was stolen. Spokesperson Yassin Amaro yesterday said they have taken so long because the agency is &ldquo;going deeper&rdquo; into the matter. &ldquo;In some instances, we have travelled abroad to net more suspects,&rdquo; he told a local daily. Health Cabinet Secretary Cleopa Mailu said they are cooperating with the investigating agencies and would implement the recommendations. &ldquo;Autonomous institutions of the government, namely the Kenya National Audit Office and the EACC, are undertaking independent investigations whose outcome will inform further action,&rdquo; he said in a statement. The delay may have cost Kenyans the Sh2.1 billion assistance that USAid cancelled early this week.US Ambassador Robert Godec blamed corruption, weak accounting procedures and lack of accountability at the Ministry of Health. Investigators from the Global Fund arrived in Nairobi on Monday to probe whether any of their grants to Kenya may have been embezzled. Global Fund finances most of Kenya&rsquo;s HIV, malaria and tuberculosis programmes. The Fund gave Kenya Sh50 billion grant between 2014-16.Most of the money was channelled through institutions under the Health ministry.