The spectre of unconstitutionality surrounding the handling of capital offenders has widened to whether all convicts deserve the same penalty: death. There are five crimes classified as capital offences in Penal Code: murder, treason, oathing for criminal activities by proscribed criminal outfits, robbery and attempted robbery with violence. The law prescribes death as the only sentence for convicts of such offences. And the debate on the controversial capital punishment and intrigues around it could open the floodgates of court suits, leading to a constitutional crisis if the majority support abolition of the penalty.  UNDESERVING CONVICTS? Experts say sometimes, the mandatory death sentence serves extreme punishment to some undeserving convicts of the offences, and is therefore disproportionate and unconstitutional. Views are that there should be variations in penalties meted out on convicts of capital offfences, depending on motivation for and degree of aggravation in committing such crimes. Also in question is whether the law should consider the circumstances under which each offender commits the offences, and set a formula of determining varied proportionate penalties. Justice Jessie Lesiit, the principal judge in the High Court’s criminal division, says lack of distinction and clear definitions of the offences of robbery and robbery with violence have led to disproportionate sentencing of convicts. Lesiit said the sections that define robbery, simple robbery and robbery with violence, and attempted robbery and attempted robbery with violence are ambiguous. She said the limitations or the challenges the judicial officers face is not in the sentence to give but in lack of clarity and lack of differentiation between the manner in which the offence is committed and the kind of weapons used in the offences of robbery. That failure to clarify, classify and distinguish between the actions, the weapons and what is done, even the execution of the offence, poses a problem, Lesiit said. She said there are crimes that would be deserving of a serious punishment, even if it is death, because of the way in which they are executed and the kind of weapons used. And there are others that are not deserving at all because of the way they were executed and the weapons the offenders carried. “Those are the things we are saying, let us have a distinction in our law so we can say in this case, aggravation was lacking; they didn’t do a good thing but they didn’t come with a kind of force that would require a severe punishment. Each should be in category of their own,” Lesiit said. “But ours is the same river that carries all of them, which is a mistake. Because Kenyans said they want it [death sentence], let us have it for the most serious of offences, the most aggravated ones. The person who uses gun, knives and petrol bombs can get the death penalty.”  CONSTITUTIONAL THRESHOLDS A three-judge bench chaired by Lesiit herself in September 2015 directed Parliament and the state law office to amend some sections of the penal code to meet constitutional thresholds. Twelve death row convicts whose sentences were commuted to life were challenging many issues, including the mandatory death sentence — the fact that because the sentence is mandatory even if mitigation is given, it is of no use because the sentence is already pre-determined by the statute. Lesiit said the bench found that there is no distinct clarity to differentiate between degrees of aggravation of the offence of robbery, the offence of robbery with violence and attempted robbery with violence with sufficient particularities. She said the problem is not the sentence but that the laws have not differentiated the actions and the manner of executions of those offences, then they go on to provide all of them with one sentence. There is no distinct clarity to differentiate between degrees of aggravation of the offence of robbery, the offence of robbery with violence and attempted robbery with violence with sufficient particularities. “What we found is that the definition section 295 gives of robbery is inadequate and insufficient in its scope and also in application. The penalties sections that are provided do not set out the required details in precision that meet the constitutional threshold that requires certainty and clarity of the offence charged on the accused person to be able to defend themselves,” Lesiit said. “We said those sections are ambiguous and are conflicted to such an extent that they violate an accused person’s right to a fair trial. Because under article 27 of the constitution, it requires that accused persons who are a special category of persons facing criminal trial should be accorded equal treatment, protection and equal benefits under the law.” Justice Lesiit said they asked Parliament to look at those sections to come up with clarification and distinction in aggravation, “so that if you are two of you and it is ngeta [using hands to subdue someone], that offence should have a name.” “If they can distinguish that and state here where you used firearms or grenades or you have gone with knives, you have stabbed people and all those things, then that one is an aggravated form of robbery. If it is where they have shot everybody and the sentence is death, it will be proportionate to what they have done,” Lesiit said. She said the offence should lead to an imprisonment of not more than 10 years, with the court having discretion to determine exactly how many years they will give, depending on the execution of the offence. Lesiit said if somebody committed the offence while armed with a gun and another person was armed with a stick, the two ought not be treated the same.  INTENTION THAT COUNTS But Shatikha Chivusia, a Kenya National Commission on Human Rights commissioner, differs with Lesiit on pegging the penalties on the types of weapons and degree of aggravation used. Chivusia argues that for there to be culpability, there must be an intention and then the action — the two things that go hand in hand in the ingredients of crime, irrespective of what kind of weapon is used. “If this person left his house with a gun, the other left his house with a knife and another with a stick, all of these items are able to cause bodily harm, which means as the person is preparing to go and commit that crime, in their mind the rationale is: should there be interference or should the victim resist, then I am going to use what I have,” Chivusia said. “For the common chicken thieves, the aim is to steal and go away, but the moment you are armed, you have an intention to cause harm should your plans be interfered with.” She said said after a convict is sent to the hangman, there is a window for appeal, which means that the due process is followed, and having listened to both sides and evidence before the court, it is on that basis that capital punishment is pronounced. Lesiit says in the case where a gun is involved and is fired, that offence is more aggravated. She says a fired gun and a stick cannot be compared, and there should be degrees of aggravation recognised under the law. “We just have a definition of what a robbery is. It tells you if your intention is to rob someone of something. For instance, if you are with another person and maybe you are armed with something, which they don’t specify to distinguish levels of aggravation — they say now that is robbery with violence,” she said. “If you stole something from somebody and you were two of you, it doesn’t matter whether you used any actual violence or not. If you are two of you and you have stolen something from someone,  that is robbery with violence.” Lesiit added: “It cannot be that somebody who is not armed and is with another one and they steal something, that that is the same level of robbery as the one who comes armed with a gun and they are a huge number of people and they are firing all over the place.” Attorney General GIthu Muigai supported the repealing of some sections of the Penal Code to remove generalities that anchor inherent unfairness. He said the law should be amended to distinguish between a person who is the principal perpetrator of the crime and the person who is a victim of circumstances by being at the same place at the same time with the person who commits the crime. “Our law must catch up with the most recent thinking globally, about crime and punishment,” Muigai said. “Right now if you are with a person who intends to rob somebody but you don’t know his intention, then he uses violence, you are also an accomplice and you will be charged with capital robbery.”