If there is any lesson to be learned from the formation of NASA and the party primaries, it is that politically, the Coast region is marginalising itself.The region that once epitomised opposition politics through Kadu in the early 1960s has now been reduced to a mere spectator in national politics. Twice, in the recent past, Coast has found itself completely left out. We have witnessed a serious regional and national political leadership vacuum. We saw this leadership vacuum last September, when 12 parties folded up and formed the Jubilee Party. As the JP national leadership lineup was unveiled, Coast leaders were conspicuously excluded. Those who attended were mere spectators. Sorry to say, they acted as flower girls and boys.The Jubilee leadership is now fully loaded until 2022 and beyond. This means any politician from the Coast who aspires to vie for President under JP has no room to manoeuvre: The bus is full. Last week, a similar scenario replayed itself during the announcement of the NASA lineup. There was no leader from the Coast to represent them in the alliance. As was the case during the JP launch last year, Coast leaders, who attended the NASA event were mere spectators like everyone elese in the crowd. Coast people have been watching haplessly as history is being made. NASA, like Jubilee, has also lined up its national leadership beyond 2022. This means that any Coast politician who wishes to vie for Presiden in 2022 under NASA &mdash; say Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho, who has announced his interest &mdash; will have to wait a little longer, or else look for another pathway to get there. Anything to the contrary is an illusion.I have argued that the answer to the Coast region&rsquo;s political isolation from mainstream politics lies in the formation of a viable regional party, which will serve as the symbol of unity and identity. Yet, our leading politicians have rejected this idea, claiming that coastal interests are already served in the existing parties &mdash; all of which are rooted outside of the region.One of the explanations given for rejecting a homegrown party is that the Coast is too multi-ethnic, too multi-lingual, and even too multi-racial to endure a political party founded on an ethnic basis. Yet, the ethnic card is what informs Kenyan politics today.The parties that our leaders have preferred were themselves founded along ethnic considerations. All politics being local, these parties were formed first and foremost to serve the interests and needs of local communities. This is why, in part, Kenyan parties lack ideologies.The people of the Coast region have complained about marginalisation and historical injustices, and they are right. Much of this blame has been laid on perceived &ldquo;outsiders.&rdquo; For years, our political leaders have used the marginalisation political card in the form of &ldquo;us versus them.&rdquo;However, the unfolding national events inform us that if we are economically marginalised, or if the Coast has suffered historical injustices, we, the Coast people, have contributed to this marginalisation by our lack of political unity of purpose. In other words, by absenting ourselves from the political centre, we are marginalising ourselves. We are the isolationists in mainstream politics. Marginalisation and historical injustices will only be resolved through political participation as the starting point. This participation can be realised on the basis of our collective engagement with like-minded groups and individuals, and joining political party alliances that together should place us on an equal footing on national decision-making processes, and the distribution of political goods. Without nurturing a meaningful political unity of purpose, the Coast will continue playing second fiddle in national politics. The late Coast politician Ronald Ngala understood this when, in 1963, he engaged coastal communities, leaders and other Kenyans through Kadu. In many ways, the Coast owned Kadu and shared its values.The Ngala example should serve to inform that in this new era of coalition politics, the Coast needs its own stool to sit on. Not a borrowed one. It is this lack of a stool to sit on, and the absence of representation that led Coast leaders to play second fiddle during the formation of the Jubilee Party last year, and the exclusion from the NASA lineup last week. The leadership positions in the JP and NASA formations have been filled up and the freedom trains have already departed the station. Which way Coast?