The Safaricom network went down last week on Monday morning. For nearly two hours, subscribers were unable to make calls, send messages or transact on M-Pesa, leaving millions of customers stranded. This begs question: Do you understand the impact of the loss of telecoms within your organisation?After commenting on a number of organisations in Kenya that got their crisis management wrong, it is refreshing to see a company that got their response to a serious incident right! The handling of the network outage by Safaricom has not been flawless but it has been close to it. A check on their website shows they have Business Continuity Management and Crisis Risk Management in place. So what are the five lessons learnt from this incident?One, choose the right spokesperson: Perhaps in recognition of the magnitude of the crisis, the telecommunication company chose its CEO, Bob Collymore, to be the spokesperson. Collymore was remorseful and assured the public that the company was working to resolve the technical hitch in the shortest time possible. As the leader, the CEO was in a unique position to explain what was going on and how it came about. He provided a &lsquo;frame&rsquo; that anchored the thinking and actions of people on the ground, thereby controlling the narrative. Second, communicate constantly: It is critical for an organisation to retain as much control over a crisis situation as possible, and one way of doing this is through effective communication. Safaricom used several avenues to communicate, including mainstream and social media. To be effective, communication should be convincing and should provide a sense of direction and hope.Third, agree to pay compensation early: Two days after the incident, the telco gave M-Pesa users 24 hours of free mobile money transfers for the inconvenience and losses suffered. This approach was probably cheaper in the end and could reduce the reputational damage on Safaricom.Fourth, do you have a sound business offering, and will your customers come back? With Safaricom&rsquo;s successful M-Pesa offering and market share, it is possible that it won&rsquo;t experience a massive exodus of its subscribers to the competition. Finally, there will always be a cost incurred by organisations after a crisis. In the case of Safaricom, its share price at the Nairobi Securities Exchange lost ground marginally, closing at Sh18.95 on Tuesday from Sh19.10 the previous day. Additionally, The Communications Authority of Kenya threatened to impose a fine on the firm.Overall, businesses should be encouraged to develop and expose their contingency and business continuity plans to simulations and exercises. Such trials may be in-house, but they should also be complemented by regular multi-agency exercises to build mutual trust and create awareness with regard to each other&rsquo;s capabilities.