It is a well-known fact that the father of opposition, Raila Odinga, is a master spin artist when it comes to galvanising people around a cause. He is a man who knows how to turn any national crisis into personal gain.Raila did that effectively when he pushed his Orange revolution after winning the referendum in 2005 and three years later he got into a government of national unity with demands of power-sharing after the acrimonious 2007 election.Fast forward to this year, one is left to conclude that this was his plan with the now failed unga revolution. The media appears to have been duped into this wave of creating despondency.It was almost a daily occurrence to find TV and print headlines about the cost of living, with the focus on the escalating price of unga. There are other commodities that are affected by the rising prices, in and outside Kenya, but unga sits at the centre for most families in this country.Millions of Kenyans have made ugali the staple food in their homes, thus the cost of their ugali rising is an emotional affair. Raila knows this too well, hence the attempt at creating the unga revolution as his campaign platform against President Uhuru Kenyatta.And because the master spin artist had already set the ball rolling, most analysts on press panels did not bother to delve into detailed economic factors. Many did not go beyond Raila&rsquo;s claims to look at how factors such as drought, price of inputs and forex have affected prices of basic commodities.How many analysts have looked at the long-term plans to increase and stabilise producer prices so this sector is beneficial and attractive to the farmer and in turn attain food security?On May 16, when the government stepped in and brought down the retail price of unga to Sh90, Kenyans should have been served that evening with headlines and early editions of the print media on the salvation to the people.But there was a deafening silence, even from the online alerts from the media, for almost two hours. This silence spoke volumes as to the real intentions of the media.Many Kenyans have accused the media of being agents of selling bad news and not good news. The media has done nothing to remove this tag, holding that good news doesn&rsquo;t sell.Instead of looking at the impact of the subsidised unga and the lower cost of ugali, we are now being treated to an expose of how the maize was imported and the big men who stand to gain. This is an attempt to water down government efforts to make ugali affordable again.One wonders how quickly the media were able to put together their investigative teams to get details of such a scandal. Once again, the king of despondency was ready to issue a statement, creating an imaginary scandal that was picked up by the media as gospel truth.It&rsquo;s obvious Raila had roped in a large section of the media, which was caught flat-footed with the government&rsquo;s announcement. Raila had painted himself as the only one who could bring the cost down, even after failing while Prime Minister.They were probably preparing the ground to run this narrative up to the August election. It is clear the plan was to use the unga revolution to kick Jubilee out of office, or at best create a government of national unity.