Bungoma Senator and NASA co-principal Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula is politically irrelevant after he failed to go for the presidency, Water CS Eugene Wamalwa has said.Speaking to the star on the phone yesterday, Wamalwa said Wetang&rsquo;ula has no political stand.He said the Luyha community prevailed upon the Ford Kenya leader to shelve his presidential ambitions and give room to ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi. But he opted to support ODM leader Raila Odinga as NASA presidential flagbearer. &ldquo;The community prevailed upon me in 2013 to abandon by presidential ambitions so that I could allow the two, who are my seniors, to vie for the seat. But they have abandoned the quest for somebody else,&rdquo; Wamalwa said. He said Wetang&rsquo;ula launched his presidential bid in Kakamega, which left two people dead. Wamalwa said even after the incident, Wetang&rsquo;ula was compromised and even accepted a position offered by NASA that does not exist.The CS urged the Luhya community not to trust Mudavadi and Wetang&rsquo;ula.&ldquo;You should be careful because it seems our two senior brothers might be out to auction you to support Raila for their own personal gains,&rdquo; Wamalwa said.Wamalwa asked the Bungoma people to reject Wetang&rsquo;ula if he defends his senator seat as a fallback plan. The CS said Wetang&rsquo;ula has done nothing for the electorate to warrant his reelection.He appealed to the community to vote for Jubilee in the August election. The Water CS said unlike the opposition, he has done a lot for the community, but NASA is out to divide them along tribal lines.Wamalwa lashed out at Ford Kenya leaders for allocating top positions to people from one constituency.He said the senator, woman rep nominee Catherine Wambilianga and governor candidate Wycliffe Wangamati all come from Kabuchai in a region that has more than eight constituencies. He called on Ford Kenya officials to exercise democracy by allowing people from other constituencies to run on the party ticket.&ldquo;It is not the preserve of Kabuchai people only to lead us, let people from other regions also be given a chance. We will not allow Kabuchai people to lead us while other regions have been sidelined,&rdquo; Wamalwa said.He said Ford Kenya leaders have not embraced devolution and voters should reject them. &ldquo;We need to balance leadership so that other regions are also represented,&rdquo; the CS said.