Yesterday, the National Police Service recruited young Kenyans. Article 244 of the Constitution provides the objectives and functions of the NPS as follows: (a) strive for the highest standards of professionalism and discipline among its members; (b) prevent corruption and promote and practice transparency and accountability; (c) comply with constitutional standards of human rights and fundamental freedoms; (d) train staff to the highest possible standards of competence and integrity and respect human rights and fundamental freedoms and dignity; (e) foster and promote relationships with the broader society. This shows the important role the police play in this country. So to those who were recruited and after the training you will receive, one of your main responsibilities will be to save lives. This may involve pulling a victim out of the wreckage in a road accident or from a burning house and administering first aid. It could also involve offering basic life support to a shooting victim before paramedics arrive. Other than these obvious examples, your presence and consistent enforcement of laws will save countless lives that you&rsquo;ll never get to know about. Every distress call you attend to, every speeding or overloaded vehicle you stop, every intervention you do in a fight or an incident of domestic violence you respond to may be lifesaving.Another important point is that, as an officer, you will often encounter people when they&rsquo;re at their worst. Persons who drive under the influence of alcohol or drugs, the rude ones, gang members, robbers, rapists and spousal abusers are a few examples of the kind of people you&rsquo;ll meet in your day-to-day policing work.Third, know that policing is not a monotonous job. What you do today could be totally different from what you&rsquo;ll do tomorrow. The Police Service is a good environment for those who abhor monotony. Different shifts have different experiences and the opportunities to diversify are abundant, as well. If you find yourself doing patrols, you may also try your hand at serving in the operation areas, investigations, report office, traffic department, special assignment unit, guarding vital installations, gender desk officers, records officer, and other specialist fields. This motivates you to try your hand at a host of other special and interesting tasks, and gain new skills.While some people enjoy tackling challenges, very few careers are more challenging than policing. When performed well, police work confronts all sorts of challenges, both physical and mental. You will find yourself chasing robbers, and with your training you will certainly outsmart them, but, at the end of it all, it is about solving the problem. With the introduction of the Nyumba Kumi initiative, a community policing strategy, a great deal of police work now involves helping people solve problems through legal altenatives out of the criminal justice system. In efforts to reform the NPS, Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet has developed the People Centred Policing concept. This will need the police to work according to the needs of the community they serve. PCP is conceptualised as a National Police Service transformation bus. The driver is IGP Boinnet and you will be expected to be part of the passengers in the transformation bus. In the last decade, the police have been ranked as the most corrupt institution in this country. A number of high profile cases have also emerged involving alleged police brutality and corruption. This does not mean that you too should be corrupt. It means serving with integrity and holding good moral values and ethics to change this tag.The writer works in the Internal Affairs Unit of the National Police Service