Meru Governor Peter Munya has urged the national government to construct earth dams in the county to end water shortages.He said Sh15 billion dams should be built in Thangatha, Urra, Kianjuri, Thingithu and Ndatho. Munya spoke on Wednesday in Lailuba, Tigania East, an area faced with water shortages.&ldquo;We have seen dams being constructed in other areas of Kenya. We want the national government to consider constructing some in Meru. We can&rsquo;t construct them as the county government because they are worth billions,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;We have seen the Uhuru Kenyatta administration construct dams worth Sh63 billion and others for Sh20 billion. Our neighbouring county &mdash; Tharaka Nithi &mdash; is also set to benefit. Why are we left out?&rdquo;Munya urged the President to visit Tigania East and West to fix the problem. He said insecurity is also a problem, especially in areas bordering Northeastern Kenya.&ldquo;I started a conservancy so herders in Meru can graze their animals without interference. But after training wardens, legislators opposed the project and said the wardens were my militia to rig votes,&rdquo; Munya said.Meanwhile, the county boss said he is not opposed to construction of a Sh6.9 billion wind-power plant in the county.Munya said he assented to a motion seeking to demarcate proposed land for residents, who could be displaced, to get title deeds to enable them to get adequate compensation. Construction has been delayed due to land disputes.The first phase of the 400-megawatt plant is to be built on 18,700 acres in Lailuba, Tigania East, for Sh6.9 billion. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m not opposing the demarcation. I&rsquo;m ready for dialogue, but a proper procedure should be followed. All stakeholders should be called to a meeting, a committee selected in broad daylight, land adjudication done and public amenities like schools be removed from the project, then the rest of the land can be demarcated. If anyone is left out, he can appeal so he can be included,&rdquo; Munya said.He said the process must be transparent and accountable. Munya told Kengen to involve the county government, as it is the trustee of the land.&ldquo;I heard some MPs say they were given compensation money on behalf of the people by KenGen. How can that happen, yet we are the trustees?&rdquo; he asked.Munya filed a petition stopping the demarcation, demanding an all-inclusive team constituted first and landowners given a two-week notice first.