Kenyans languishing in Chinese prisons will be brought back to Kenya to serve their remaining prison terms.China holds a record 80 Kenyans in its prisons, with some facing death sentences for among other things, drug trafficking.Their coming back has been made possible after Kenya signed a number of treaties with China. Attorney General Githu Muigai signed the agreements on behalf of the Kenyan government on Tuesday in Beijing China in the presence of President Xi Jing ping of China and President Uhuru Kenyatta during the Belt and Road Summit in Beijing.They are the Treaty on Extradition, Mutual Legal Assistance and Transfer of Prisoners.&ldquo;This is a big one for us especially because we want our people, who get into the wrong side of the law in China to be able to come and serve their prison terms back home,&rdquo; said Attorney General Githu Muigai who signed the agreements on behalf of the Kenyan government on Tuesday. This was one the key things Kenya managed to get during a major infrastructure conference - Belt and Road Summit &ndash; held in Beijing last weekend. While in China, the head of state secured more funding from China&rsquo;s Sh15 trillion Silk Road Economic Belt and the 21st Century Maritime Silk Road initiative.To mark the elevation of Kenya&rsquo;s diplomatic status to the highest level described as comprehensive strategic cooperation, China handed Kenya a grant of Sh19.2 billion. In addition to the grant, Kenya also got another pledge of Sh2.4 billion to help fight drought, and another Sh500 million for refugees. China, which hopes to use its financial power to create a new world order, gave Kenya a further Sh16.5 billion for the construction of the Nairobi Western bypass. The new road will run from the Rironi to Nakuru-Nairobi highway, and it is part of the wider plan to decongest Nairobi.The SGR will now be extended to Kisumu after China supported a request by Kenya for an extra Sh369 billion from the Exim Bank of China. The third phase will run from Naivasha to Malaba through Kisumu, with the possibility of being extended to Kigali, Rwanda, via Kampala.&ldquo;This is particularly important because of the new port we are building in Kisumu,&rdquo; Transport CS James Macharia said. While in London, President Uhuru with First Lady Margaret Kenyatta met Prince William at the Buckingham Palace and discussed a wide range of issues, including wildlife conservation. Prince William is an ardent supporter of Kenya&rsquo;s conservation efforts.During the meeting with Prime Minister May, Uhuru and the PM agreed on creating a working group to examine a new framework for bilateral and economic relations between the two countries.&ldquo;May committed to support Kenya&rsquo;s counter-terrorism programme,&rdquo; State House Spokesman Manoa Esipisu said.