National under-16 girls&rsquo; football champions Wiyeta Girls from Trans Nzoia were crowned champions as the Rift Valley Secondary School Sports Association (RVSSSA) Term 2A Games concluded yesterday.Wiyeta beat their arch-rivals and neighbours former national champions Tartar from West Pokot 2-1 in an entertaining final played at Hill School.After sizing each other in the first 20 minutes , Tartar opened the floodgates through Milicent Yanot in the 26th minute. This gave them the psyche as they mounted pressure on their opponents as the tide turned against the champions.However, Wiyeta was soon to change the tide and equalised in the 45th minute through Centrix Shikanga who ended the first half at 1-1. Wiyeta returned in the second half an improved side and took the game to Tartar amid several attacks. The instrumental Shikanga again on the mark in the 54th minute to complete a brace for Wiyeta.Tartar woes then began as the lost grip on the mid-field with their opponents pitching tent in their half. This forced Tartar to retreat to the defence as the match ended 2-1 in favour of Wiyeta. The winners are now exuding confidence of retaining their national crown at the next month national show in Mombasa.Their tactician Wamalwa Awoh said despite a poor start, they managed to turn around the game in the second half and their tactics worked for them. &ldquo;You know my girls lost concentration in the first half but when we went to the break, I instructed them what to do and they followed the instructions to the letter. We will start preparations immediately in a bid to defend our title,&rdquo; Awoh said.He said last year Copa Coca Cola promised them Sh500,000 after they won the national title in Kangaru Embu but they are yet to receive the money one year later.In the boys&rsquo; football, St. Anthony beat West Pokot&rsquo;s Ortum 1-0 to retain the title as Trans Nzoia won both the boys and women&rsquo;s titles.Daniel Chepkwony scored the lone goal in the 56th minute. In girls&rsquo; handball, former national champions St. Francis Cheptarit regained their former glory after winning 18-12 against Kirandich in the final while in the boys category, Sinyereri narrowly beat Saniak from Nandi 24-23 after 17-17 draw in regulation time. In netball, Cheptil ran over Kapatagat 51-17 in the final.RVSSSA chairman, Kipchumba Maiyo praised the competition exhibited during the show, saying they are targeting an overall title at the nationals.&ldquo;Last year, we were position one in Term One games but we are targeting to win the overall Term 2A title.The teams are very competitive and we expect the best results,&rdquo; Maiyo said.Elsewhere, former regional holders Upper Hill and Ofafa Jericho rugby sevens teams started the Nairobi Region Secondary Schools Sports Association games on a positive note at Lenana School.Schools are gunning for the top eight slots to stay on course for the regional ticket to the Copa Coca Cola national championships set for Mombasa next month.In a low-scoring Pool &lsquo;A&rsquo; tie, last year&rsquo;s regional finalists Upper Hill secured a 10-7 win over Aquinas. The non-committal Our Lady of Fatima forfeited the tournament handing St. Mary&rsquo;s, Upper Hill and Aquinas Boys walkovers and 28-0 scores.There was no action in Pool &lsquo;B&rsquo; as former holders Ofafa Jericho and Jamhuri were both handed free point and 28-0 scores as Mutuini and Makini failed to honour their fixtures. Nairobi School dished out some rugby sevens lessons to Light Academy by trouncing them 60-0 in their Pool &lsquo;C&rsquo; opening match.Kayole South too, were schooled by Strathmore School in a 60-0 Pool &lsquo;D&rsquo; rout as Moi Force Academy lost to Ruthimitu 15-21. Muhuri Muchiri &lsquo;Texas&rsquo; beat Dagoretti Mixed 35-12 and M High gathered maximum points (28-0) from a Kangemi forfeit in Pool &lsquo;E&rsquo;. &ldquo;The games are going on well and the boys have played well in their opener. I hope the dull weather will not affect them. We are eyeing a slot to the nationals,&rdquo; said Ben Kombo, Muhuri Muchiri&rsquo;s coach.