"Hi ladies, how hard is it to find a good man these days?! You find a financially stable guy, unapata akona baby mama kadhaa [you find out he has children by many different women]. You find a good-hearted man, unajiuliza [you ask yourself] if you are ready to wake up to that face for the rest of your life. Is it too much to ask for a good, handsome, financially stable man with no kids? " So read a post on a popular women&rsquo;s gossip page on Facebook.The responses ranged from funny to blunt. One said, &ldquo;Consider your age. If you're not a spring chicken, your checklist is too ambitious.&rdquo;Another said, &ldquo;Nairobi men are notorious for sowing wild oats everywhere, so getting a man with no kids is not easy. Many men out here are already baba nanis [so and so&rsquo;s father].&rdquo; Research has shown that millennials &ndash; those born between 1981 and 1997 &ndash; are opting to get married later than those from the previous Generation X. This group is prioritising matters such as a flexible career, travel and &lsquo;being your authentic self&rsquo;.As millennials postpone marriage, there are many who are opting to cohabit. As with everything in life, these set-ups may or may not work and if the couples separate, there are chances they may have already gotten a child, or children, together.This presents a step parenting situation if the individuals decide to marry other people in future. Many couples will tell you marriage is not &lsquo;as easy as ABC&rsquo;. Add step kids and &lsquo;baby mamas and baby daddys&rsquo; to the mix and the situation can threaten the survival of the marriage.Jackie Keya knows this all too well. She speaks to the Star about being in a blended family.Jackie &ndash; a counsellor, life coach and mother of four children (two biological and two step kids) &ndash; may not be a millennial, but she knows how difficult it can be to be a step mother.She says she never imagined she would start out her marriage life as a step mother, but, well, life happens. A little over fifteen years ago, she met her husband Peter Opon through a family member. &ldquo;I wouldn&rsquo;t say that it was love at the first sight, however, after several interactions, our friendship grew to another level and we made a decision to get married. I knew that my husband had two children from a previous relationship, so the decision to get married was scary for both of us, but we went ahead with it.&rdquo;Jackie and Peter lived together for about five years before formalising their marriage through a church wedding in December 2007. Jackie says she and her husband had not discussed parenting &ndash; and step parenting to be specific &ndash; and what role she would play. Na&iuml;ve assumption that &lsquo;love conquers all&rsquo;&ldquo;Like most couples, we assumed that we could handle all the challenges that parenting brings our way because: we loved each other. Most of us during the early years of a relationship believe love is enough to conquer all the issues that come your way. I have come to learn, it is a wrong assumption.&rdquo;Jackie says she and Peter made many mistakes and had conflicts, but learnt along the way. &ldquo;Nowadays, we make intentional efforts to discuss parenting and how to be better and support one another along the journey. I have learnt successful step-parenting takes two &ndash; the biological parent and the step parent. I have also learnt my boundaries as a step parent.&rdquo; Jackie cites a number of challenges that come with being a member of a step family. &ldquo;The obvious one is the fact that there is stigma associated with being a member of a step family, more so being a step mother. It is believed that all step mums a wicked. This means you are already judged just for being a step parent.&rdquo;Jackie says the judgment prevented her from opening up about the challenges she faced as a step mother.&ldquo;My journey as a step mum was lonely.&rdquo;Jackie says disciplining step children is difficult. The line between being perceived as an evil step parent and one who cares for the child is blurred, she says. &ldquo;This is a challenge I&rsquo;m still learning to deal with. I have realised and learnt over the years that I need to connect with my step children and form a bond that is strong enough for them to allow me to guide and reprimand them. It&rsquo;s a sensitive issue that requires consistent, intentional efforts,&rdquo; Jackie says.She continues, &ldquo;The discipline challenges I faced when they were young children are totally different as they grow into young adults.&rdquo;Rejection Jackie says she has faced a lot of rejection as a step mother. &ldquo;One of the basic needs we have as human beings is the need for acceptance. Apart from feeling the negativity from the society, as a step mum, at times you may feel rejected by your step children. Your actions are viewed from a microscopic lenses. Subtle or innocent actions are often interpreted as evil. It doesn&rsquo;t help that our step children have read and heard the evil step mum stories.&rdquo;Jackie says parents should try as much as possible to diffuse tension before it escalates.She says parenting issues sometimes become marital issues. &ldquo;You have to build a strong foundation in your marriage to ensure it can withstand the challenges of being a step family.&rdquo;Jackie says when she got married to Peter, her parents did not understand what it meant to be in a step family. &ldquo;They were worried, which is understandable because they worried out of love. And actually, they were right &ndash; it&rsquo;s complex and different from the ordinary nuclear families. But forming an emotionally balanced step family is doable. Both our families have supported us on this journey and we are grateful.&rdquo; Dealing with biological motherJackie says she and her step children&rsquo;s biological mother have an understanding and mutual respect for each other. &ldquo;My step kids&rsquo; mum is a vital part of my step kids&rsquo; life and wellbeing and I respect her. As a step mother, I am not a replacement mum. No one can replace a biological parent. She has always maintained a relationship and interaction with the children. This is important.&rdquo; Book on step parentingBecause she walked a lonely road in understanding what it means to be in a blended family, Jackie has put her experiences and nuggets of advice in two books &ndash; The 7 Successful Step Parenting Mindsets, which is a free e-book, and A Delicate Balance &ndash; Parenting in A Step Family, which is available in print.Jackie says A Delicate Balance &ndash; Parenting in A Step Family is helps couples in step families connect with their step children and manage coparenting effectively with an ex.Jackie concludes by saying, &ldquo;Step family life is challenging, however, what makes a family functional or dysfunctional is not the composition. It is how we understand, care and treat one another. The more you learn about step family life, the more equipped you will be to create harmony in your step family. The journey to an emotionally healthy functioning step family is not a sprint, it is a marathon.&rdquo; Contacts:Facebook: The Blended Family NetworkMobile: 0726460245Email: [email&#160;protected] FACT BOX: Blended familiesStep-parenting Dos and Don'tsAdapted from Webmd.com1. DON'T come on too strong.2. DO get on the same parenting page with your new spouse and his or her ex.3. DO encourage your stepchild to have one-on-one time with both of his or her biological parents.4. DO have family meetings weekly.5. DON'T set your expectations too high.6. DON'T overstep your boundaries.7. Be ready to hear, "You're not my real mom/dad."8. DO plan activities with your stepchild.9. DON'T take it personally.Stepchildren are dealing with their own feelings.Famous blended families/co-parenting set-upsKenya1. Grace Msalame. While &lsquo;baby mama&rsquo; and &lsquo;baby daddy&rsquo; drama is the common picture painted of people in co-parenting situations, Grace handles her situation with, well, grace.She congratulated her twins&rsquo; father on his recent nuptials by posting a picture of her daughters with the bride on Instagram. The caption read, &ldquo;Bonus love&rdquo;. Her daughters were flower girls at the wedding. People were shocked. One follower said: &ldquo;He lost out. You are a beautiful being.&rdquo; Another said: &ldquo;You have a heart of gold.&rdquo; Others said Grace was brave. Grace responded, saying she has been friends with the couple for years and they have always co-parented. She said she knew not everyone would understand her good relationship with the couple and that is alright.Blended families across the border1. Jada Pinkett Smith and Will Smith &ndash; Before Will Smith married Jada Pinkett, he was married to Sherre Fletcher for two years, and together they had one son, Trey. Will and Jada have two children together &ndash; Jaden and Willow.2. T.I. and Tiny &ndash; American rapper T.I. and wife Tiny have two sons and a daughter together. T.I also has 2 sons and a daughter by other women. Tiny also has a daughter from a previous relationship.3. Steve Harvey and Marjorie Bridges &ndash;Harvey had four children before he and Marjorie wed. Bridges had three children from a previous marriage.