Singapore took two wickets in the last two balls of the final over to secure a thrilling tie against the hosts Kenya Select at Sikh Union Nairobi. Chasing 254 to win, the hosts needed 13 of the last over to register their first win of the series.Emmanuel Bundi gave the home team a good start with ten runs, off the first two deliveries. He was first dropped on the boundary for a six before finding the gap for a boundary. He pushed for a single and Pushpak Kerai also picked up a single to level the scores.But with the equation reduced to one run required from two deliveries and three wickets in hand, the wheels started to fall off, starting with Bundi&rsquo;s dismissal, caught at long on trying to finish the match with another six. Abisheikh Chidambraman joined Kerai and with the fielders in the circle, Kerai skied Dharmichand Milewa&rsquo;s delivery safely in Kumar Selladore&rsquo;s hands for the match to end in a draw.&ldquo;We should have won the game, but that&rsquo;s cricket,&rdquo; captain Karan Kaul said. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s important for the guys to learn from this occasion. As a young team, we just need to think a bit more when we get into these tight positions.&rdquo;Earlier, Dhiren Godaria, who was drafted in the team in place of injured Alex Obanda scored 76 from 48 balls. The game was set up by two dominant partnerships for the third wicket, betweeen Chaminda Ruwan (72) and Arjun Murteja (65) and for 117 runs for Singapore and an opening stand of 104 between Gondaria and Kaul (42) for the Kenyan side.With the performance of the Ruwan and Murteja, Singapore went into the last 10 overs of the inning on 212 for 3 with thieir eyes on a winning total. The middle order looked set to get them past the 300 mark but a late fall of wickets initiated by another late inclusion in the team, Harsh Patel (4 for 49) saw them post 273.Kenya Select looked in control throughout their chase, with Gondaria and Kaul taking advantage of some poor fielding and bowling length from Singapore to get to hundred run mark in just 16 overs.Anantha Krishpa ended the stand in the 17th over when he trapped Kaul lbw while trying to sweep. Gondaria and Patel parterned for five overs getting the scores to 137 and when it looked Gondaria will finish the match with ease, he fell at long as he was going for a second consecutive boundary. He had hit seven fours and three sixes.Dominic Wesonga brought hopes in the chase with a crucial 42. But after he fell with the board on 224, Bundi took the task with a couple of boundaries before falling with one required off two balls.&ldquo;We made some mistakes and it could have gone our way, but credit to the guys for the way they fought and secured the tie,&rdquo; Singapore captain Chetan Surwanshi said.&ldquo;We were a bit sloppy in the field and probably gave away 20 runs and dropped a couple of catches. But we&rsquo;ll take the positives from this game into the ICC World Cricket League Division 3 in Uganda.&rdquo;