Equity Group made the highest post-tax profit of Sh4.85 billion in the January-March period despite reporting a 5.64 per cent drop from Sh5.14 billion during the same period last year. The lender beat rivals KCB Group, the largest lender by market share, which posted Sh4.54 billion in net profit, Co-operative Bank (Sh3.23 billion) and Standard Chartered (Sh2.05 billion).Speaking at an investor briefing yesterday, Equity Group chief executive James Mwangi attributed the drop in profitability to a tough economic environment and the impact of the interest rate cap. &ldquo;We strongly believe that interest rate capping is not sustainable for financial institutions. One way or another, it will have to be amended,&rdquo; Mwangi said. Banks have largely reported a drop or flat growth in net earnings largely blamed on interest rate, while some have cited hyperinflation and currency devaluation in regional subsidiaries. &ldquo;In Kenya, the interest rate caps have made it difficult to price for risk whereas some of our subsidiaries are experiencing high inflation and shortage of foreign currency,&rdquo; KCB Group chief executive Joshua Oigara said in a statement released May 11. The tier-one lenders have recorded a drop in post-tax profit with StanChart reporting the largest drop of 20.54 per cent followed by KCB at 8.35 per cent, Co-op at 5.83 per cent and Equity down 5.64 per cent. &ldquo;As you can see we are outperforming the market by far,&rdquo; Mwangi said. Mwangi also attributed the lender&rsquo;s profitability to its subsidiaries&rsquo; loan contribution as they were unaffected by rate cap unlike Kenya. He said Equity&rsquo;s earnings were largely not affected by the performance in its South Sudan operations. &ldquo;With or without South Sudan, the profit contribution and loan book remains the same. That is no longer a factor in terms of the bank&rsquo;s performance,&rdquo; Mwangi said. &ldquo;We have driven it to ensure that there are no losses from the region.&rdquo; Equity&rsquo;s net interest income for the first quarter fell 14.77 per cent year-on-year to Sh8.89 billion from Sh10.43 billion. Loans to customers declined 4.77 per cent to Sh261.9 billion from Sh275.02 billion in March 2016. Customer deposits, however, grew 16.14 per cent to Sh347.51 billion for the quarter ending March 2017 from Sh299.22 billion last year. The lender on Tuesday announced that it had closed seven of its 12 branches in South Sudan as a result of hyperinflation, a weak currency and a turbulent economy. This follows KCB&rsquo;s announcement to temporarily shut down five branches in the war-torn region.