The IEBC has cleared Jubilee Party leader Uhuru Kenyatta to start campaigns for his re-election bid. Uhuru went to the KICC in Nairobi with his running mate Deputy President William Ruto. IEBC chief Wafula Chebukati said: "I have reviewed your documents and certify that Uhuru and Ruto will run in August elections."  President Uhuru Kenyatta at the KICC in Nairobi where he was cleared by the IEBC to vie for re-election, May 29, 2017. /PSCU Chebukati asked the two to ensure a peaceful election and refrain from violence. "Campaigns started yesterday and will go on until August 5. Sell your policies and best of luck," he said. He then handed the president his certificate amid claps, shouts and screams by hundreds of their supporters.  President Uhuru Kenyatta at the KICC in Nairobi where he was cleared by the IEBC to vie for re-election, May 29, 2017. /PSCU Uhuru invited First Lady Margaret to take a picture with him as he held his nomination certificate. "I am truly grateful that you have cleared us. I assure you that Jubilee stands for peace, unity and progress," he said. The President added they were determined to have free and fair elections and unity and dignity. "We have no intention to abuse our opponents. Our desires is to sell the policies we have. Peace now, peace during campaigns and peace after the campaign."  President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto wave at supporters on their way from the KICC in Nairobi after being cleared by the IEBC, May 29, 2017. /PSCU Uhuru and Ruto will face NASA flag bearer Raila Odinga and his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper). Raila and three other presidential candidates presented their papers on Sunday. More on this: Raila cleared for presidential race, gears up for campaigns to unseat Uhuru The candidates are expected to submit items including documents of their nationwide campaign calendars and the resources at their disposal.  President Uhuru Kenyatta's supporters listen to his address after he was cleared by the IEBC at the KICC in Nairobi, May 29, 2017. /PSCU The historical longstanding political hostility between the Agikuyu and Luo still plays a major role in determining the campaign calendars of Uhuru and Raila. With 70 days to the August 8 general election, the two candidates have not campaigned in nine counties, which they perceive either to be hostile or inconsequential as they might not get a significant number of votes there. Read: Storyteller Raila's chances of victory are actually pretty good Also read: Raila and Uhuru face hostility in nine counties as campaigns kick off 