Kisumu Governor Jack Ranguma has accused ODM of imposing Senator Anyang’ Nyong’o on county residents. Ranguma said the ODM national elections board denied him victory, and maintained that he defeated Nyong’o in the Kisumu governor nominations. He claimed Senator Nyong’o conspired with ODM top leadership to rig him out in the nominations. Ranguma is yet to concede defeat to Nyong’o. “I can tell you for sure that my victory was stolen, and this scheme was hatched early before the nominations,” he said. He made the remarks during Labour Day celebrations in the Kenyatta Sports Ground, Kisumu town, on Monday. Ranguma was accompanied by Citizens Conventions party leader Grace Akumu, Kisumu Senate aspirant Israel Kodiaga and Masogo-Nyang’oma MCA Samuel Ong’ow. The governor said despite Nyong’o being declared the winner by the elections board, he will still be on the ballot at the August 8 polls. “I am the people’s governor, and they voted for me in 2013. I will, therefore, go by what they direct me to do,” he said. Ranguma alleged Nyong’o was brought to Kisumu to eject boda boda riders within the Kisumu CBD. He vowed not to remove the riders from the CBD until collapsed factories are revived to provide jobs. “I am made to understand that he is coming to remove the waste in this town. The waste they are talking about is bodaboda riders and hawkers in Kisumu,” he said. The ODM national elections board on Saturday declared Nyong’o the winner of the governor ticket with 164,553 votes, against Ranguma’s 98,573. Both Ranguma and Nyong’o were controversially declared winners on Tuesday last week. However, the ODM Appeals Tribunal later nullified the certificates given to Ranguma and Nyong’o, and directed that the party’s National Executive Committee rule on the matter. Nyong’o was declared the winner by county returning officer Tom Okong’o at Thurdibuoro Secondary School, Nyakach constituency, after he garnered 164,110 votes against Ranguma’s 91,480. At Aga Khan Hall in Kisumu town, Ranguma was announced the winner by deputy returning officer Richard Kiyondi with 118, 934 votes against Nyong’o’s 32,028. Kodiaga and Ong’ow criticised ODM for conducting shambolic nominations in the county. Kodiaga said they will not accept leaders imposed on Kisumu county residents. “We are fully behind Ranguma. The only vote that we can guarantee is that of NASA flagbearer Raila Odinga,” he said. On his part, Ong’ow also claimed that his victory was stolen. “The ODM nominations in Kisumu were not credible and legitimate winners should be given certificates,” he added. 