Tedros Ghebreyesus, a former Ethiopian Health and Foreign Affairs minister, on Tuesday became the first African to head the World Health Organisation, after winning the most votes from the participating 186 member states.He replaces Margaret Chan, who will step down from her 10-year post at the end of June. But the question is: How comes Tedros and Ethiopia managed to lobby for the global job and our Foreign Affairs CS Amina Mohamed and Kenya failed to clinch the African Union Commission job? Mind you, we only needed 34 votes out of the 55 AU member states for Mohamed to get the seat.Kenya sent emissaries &mdash; from President Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto to several Cabinet Secretaries &mdash; to 53 countries to lobby for her candidacy. She lost. Notably, while President Kenyatta appointed a government team led by Education CS Fred Matiang&rsquo;i, Tedros went for US-based Mercury Public Affairs to help him with his bid. The aggressive lobbying by the government of Mohamed could have led to concerns on why Kenya wanted this post so badly.Kenya garnered 27 votes and Chad 26, while one country abstained in the fifth round. In the sixth round, Chad got 28 votes and Kenya 25, while one head of state abstained. Moussa Faki Mahamat from little known Chad garnered 38 votes.On the other side, Tedros managed to lobby and win against strong candidates, among them Britain&rsquo;s David Nabarro and Pakistan&rsquo;s Sania Nishtar.And going into this election, Tedros was a controversial candidate, facing several accusations, among them covering up three cholera epidemics in Ethiopia and human rights abuses.Meron Alemayehu, a former active member and one of the leaders of the Semayawi party and now a member of the Argbegoch Gibot 7 rebel groups, wrote an appeal to WHO delegates prior to voting day. &ldquo;Dr Tedros, the same person whom you are about to give your vote for the position of Director General of WHO, is one of the nine most authoritative persons in Ethiopia that approve the tortures many fellow Ethiopian and I endured. Appointing Dr Tedros as DG of WHO violates the principles of WHO itself. It will be a disgrace to the organisation to be led by a man whose name is synonymous with torturer and human right abuser,&rdquo; she said.Ethiopian activist Zelalem Tessema disrupted the World Health Assembly in Geneva in protest at Tedros's candidacy for the WHO Director General post over human rights abuses .His supporters deny these allegations. Kesetebirhan Admasu, Ethiopia&rsquo;s Minister of Health from 2012-16, credits him for making the country have the lowest prevalence rates in the world and that he will be anti-tobacco activist at the WHO.But winning against such strong candidates, and with such accusations on his back, Tedros and most importantly Ethiopia, must have done their homework well.John Gachie, a foreign policy analyst and former editor at the Nation says Ethiopia&rsquo;s campaign was well-thought out and well managed. Ethiopia, he says, leveraged on its active role and importance in the region to win this seat.While Kenya failed to convince Djibouti, Burundi and surprisingly Uganda &mdash; members of IGAD &mdash; to vote for Mohamed, Ethiopia got Kenya and Rwanda&rsquo;s support, among other countries in the continent, in the campaigns. Kenya simply didn&rsquo;t do its homework well. It failed to convince key states such as South Africa, Ethiopia, Tanzania and one contry from West Africa, not only to vote for us, but also to actually lobby. That&rsquo;s what Ethiopia did differently.