TO the keen observer of party primaries &ndash; or are they party nurseries &ndash; it is no surprise that there is so much noise following the recent all-party nominations. The mere fact that, for the first time in Kenya&rsquo;s multiparty history, there are so many independents should concern any political observer and point to an ailing multiparty system. Before the Jubilee Party nominations, Secretary General Raphael Tuju exuded a lot of confidence and displayed a bravado hitherto unseen in the preparation of primaries, assuring all and sundry that JP&rsquo;s were going to be primaries like none other. Indeed, to the credit of Jubilee, they had automated membership registers and given out the famed digital membership cards. If this were an exercise involving any other actors other than Jubilee, I am sure shouts of scandal would have filled the air! This is because the digital cards tumbled like a house of cards. Like the circus we have witnessed before around manual versus electronic voting, Jubilee had to turn to manual primaries. And this laid the ground for the entry of DP Ruto. Those blaming the DP for what followed may see a conspiracy here. They speculate that the whole fiasco was choreographed to allow him to step in and, like the proverbial magician, pull out a rabbit out of a hat and have successful nominations to his credit. All people engaged in competitive elective politics are ambitious, otherwise why would they be in politics? Those accusing the DP of plotting for 2022 are actually only repeating the blindingly obvious and need not see anything sinister in that. Every other national leader not running as President in this election has his or her own machinations designed around the future and what it holds. I want to remind political pundits and others aggrieved in one way or the other by DP&rsquo;s schemes (or lack of them) that man plans but God disposes. Why, for heaven&rsquo;s sake, would we be so fixated on 2022 when we don&rsquo;t have 2017 in the bag? No political party in Kenya has a solid election platform ideologically different from the other. In fact, the only constants are community loyalties. Those complaining of shambolic party primaries just happen to be victims of a system they have all along supported. The system of impunity. Unless of course, they do not know what impunity means.Nanjakululu is a political scientist