Battle-hardened defender Jockins Atudo is the most high profile victim of the purge conducted by Harambee Stars head coach Stanley Okumbi on his 26-man squad ahead of their 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier match against Sierra Leone. The Posta Rangers skipper will miss the clash after picking a knock while on duty with his club last weekend. While lending credence to the news, Okumbi revealed that: &ldquo;Atudo hasn&rsquo;t recovered enough to make it to the camp and we do not wish him to worsen his injury.&rdquo;&ldquo;Atudo has not recovered fully and we do not want to worsen his injury. It is so unfortunate that he will miss the clash after guiding his side to concede only five goals in thirteen games. We wish him a quick recovery,&rdquo; added the Stars coachIn Atudo&rsquo;s absence, David Owino or Musa Mohammed may be the front runner for the right back slot in the crucial opener though both prefer playing in the central defence for their clubs Zesco United of Zambia and Gor Mahia respectivelyThe squad that has camped at Kenyatta Stadium Machakos for the qualifier is comprised of players drawn from the local leagues and was named two weeks ago.Ulinzi Stars in-form striker Stephen Waruru is an eye catching returnee into the national set up after some scintillating goal-scoring displays for the soldiers in the league. The home-based squad team will be further whittled down when the foreign-based players hit camp later this week.With the recent launch of the Sportpesa Super Cup tournament, where four Kenyan clubs will participate, the federation has stated that any player called for the national duty will not make it to the tournament. The tournament is set to begin on the June 5.Football Kenya Federation (FKF) through their public relations and communication chief, Barry Otieno, has confirmed the interests of the national team will be considered first. &ldquo;Any player called to the camp will be expected to honour the call. The interests of the national team will come first,&rdquo; said Barry. Stars are set to jet to Sierra Leone for their opening Group &lsquo;F&rsquo; preliminary match against their hosts on June 10. They are seeded alongside Ghana Ethiopia and Sierra Leone.