Gideon Moi,favorite scion of retired president Daniel Moi is rumoured to be spreading his tentacles in the hospitality industry, perhaps taking a cue from his political nemesis, DP William Ruto. Sources whisper to Corridors that the Baringo Senator has acquired the posh Lord Errol Hotel. The luxury facility with a colonial style building is located on the leafy Runda Estate, a few minutes&rsquo; drive from Unep Headquarters and the American Embassy.***** Kisumu Central constituency voters are a worried lot. The voters have been perturbed by the conduct of one of the parliamentary hopefuls whose campaign has been characterised by a bevy of beautiful women. The voters are shocked by the women who are now scrambling for the aspirant&rsquo;s attention and have even shared positions , including in the NGCDF, in case he is elected. The voters believe if he is indeed elected, the man will be taken hostage by the women - and it will affect his performance. ***** A mega scam is unfolding at one of the Nairobi branches of a commercial bank in which senior managers are withdrawing money in dormant accounts. Some of the accounts targetted include those of individuals who have passed on. The shocking syndicate involves junior officers too, and calls are made and then tactically followed up by huge withdrawals. An M-Pesa outlet housed at the bank is also being used for nefarious activity. What baffles many is whether the regulator, the Central Bank of Kenya, is aware of this and what steps are they taking to avert losses from vulnerable accounts.***** Some Muslim leaders who attended the State House meeting on Tuesday and pledged that they will deliver Muslim votes for the reelection of President Uhuru Kenyatta are in hot soup. Some of them have been accused of being sell-outs who have no interest of the community at heart. That they purportedly attempted to represent the Muslim community whereas some have lost favour is not in question. The claim is that they never consulted other faithful over the trip. ***** Is a senior staffer at the Teacher&rsquo;s Service Commission responsible for a salary scam in which some employees get deductions from their salaries every month without explanation? Corridors is informed that some officers working at the HR department are making deductions from teachers&rsquo; pay without authority and then sharing the money among themselves. Those targetted include newly recruited teachers, who usually receive their accumulated pay after three months. One of the victims told Corridors that the officers have perpetuated the trend for a long time, with management&rsquo;s full knowledge. &ldquo;It is a norm at the TSC and some teachers are used to that, because there is nothing we can do anyway,&rdquo; the victim said.