As we mark World Press Freedom Day, it will be interesting to take stock of how far the ideals and principles of the Windhoek Declaration — which the day is premised on — have been respected in Kenya. The day was set aside by the UN General Assembly to celebrate the fundamental principles of press freedom; to take stock of how the press performs its responsibilities; to defend the media from attacks on its independence and to honour journalists. The Windhoek Declaration envisaged a press liberated from government, political or economic control. Equally, the Declaration stood against monopolies in the media, and the widest possible distribution. That Kenya has one of the best working environments for media in the region is not in doubt. That media freedom is anchored and protected in the most progressive Bills of Rights globally is not in contention. Articles 33, 34 and 35, some of which have been actualised through the Media Council Act 2013, KICA 2013 and Freedom of Information Act 2016, set the stage for the actualisation of the Windhoek Declaration. With nearly 139 radio stations, 60 TV stations on air and over 60 publications on the streets, it always shocks people how Kenya ranks poorly in the global media freedom indexes. However, these two laws are still problematic and need review, given that, on a number of issues, they seem to cause confusion and expose journalists to more harm. This is especially in regard to fines charged, board selection and complaints handling. In addition, while sections of the law, including misuse of communication equipment and relating to undermining the authority of persons in big offices, have been declared unconstitutional, more provisions in the statutes need to be updated. These include the Books and Newspaper Act, Defamation Act, Official Secrets Act, among others. Media independence is still very problematic, largely through control of advertising revenue and ownership and, or political control. Through such formations as the Government Advertising Agency and MyGov, backed up by a directive that government-sponsored advertisements should be minimised in private media, players see this as a way to interfere with the independence of the press, and to influence editorial content. It’s common knowledge that some known corporate advertisers are using their financial muscle to impose self-censorship on the media. A number of media houses and individual journalists have borne the brunt of corporates, who withdrew advertisements because of the editorial content. Corporates have moved to court and the resulting fines have been used to curtail independent media. This has compromised independence and forced some journalists out of the industry. In addition, because of media ownership-related issues, a number of independent-minded journalists have been sacrificed. The cases of Chacha Mwita and Denis Galava, among others, are still fresh. Media owners also influence what material to publish to increase sales, without care for the moral of the story and its impact on the masses. Cases where media owners double as politicians, preachers and presenters on their own stations are examples of how not to promote independent media. A number of journalists have complained of cases where media owners have to approve editorial content, programme guests and related professional issues. A number of reporters have been harassed and attacked simply because of the media enterprises they work for, and their ownership and known political leanings. This creates two problems; it leads to self-censorship and, by extension, compromise media independence, and affects the free distribution of content. In
addition to the external interferences, lack of work ethics, professionalism or
integrity by some journalists with the notion that reporters and editors
solicit for bribes to write great stories has greatly affected their
credibility. There are in-house editorial policies that derail proper
channeling of information. The issue of poor pay and working conditions has
also undermined independence of the media because journalists easily get
compromised and pursue stories guided by individual personal interests rather
than public interest. That sources take advantage to interfere with media
independence is also known. Media independence and content distribution has also been affected in
Kenya because of media harassment. A number of journalists have been attacked,
physically assaulted by security officers and gooons, which is against the
Windhoek Declaration. The attacks on Isaiah Gwengi in Siaya, John Kituyi in
Eldoret and Francis Nyaruri in Kisii, among others are yet to be resolved. Many
media houses and individual journalists are being strolled and harassed online
for content they produce. Harassment of the media by county government agents and political thugs
presents the biggest challenge to media independence and content distribution
in Kenya, The current debates and
confusion in the manner and contents of the laws relating to media in the
country is a direct response to a quest by stakeholders for a media system that
will strengthen media freedom, enhance independence, build the capacity of the
media to set agenda representing public interest and establish a regulatory
framework that cultivates professionalism accountability. Media
sector has not been streamlined in the major development policies of the
country thus missing out on a sector very crucial to national development.  The Writer works at the Media Council of Kenya as the programmes manager and a journalists safety trainer 
victor@mediacouncil.or.ke 