Presidential aspirant Joe Nyaga yesterday promised to attract investment to the same amount of funds stolen under the Jubilee administration. Any remainder would go to paying government employees better salaries. The former Cooperatives minister said the country has enough resources to meet its demands.Nyaga said the Jubilee government has failed to pay its employees and meet the expectations of Kenyans because its top brass is busy stealing.&ldquo;I aim to have no less than 50 per cent of all senior government appointments going to women,&rdquo; Nyaga said in Nairobi during the launch of his presidential bid.He promised to improve infrastructure, invest in science and technology and build skills if elected.Nyaga said the problems Kenyans face are a result of poor leadership.&ldquo;The people in power understand our weaknesses. That is why they can steal from us without fearing anything.&rdquo;&ldquo;I will be a Commander-in-Chief who is in charge and does not leave others to make decisions as I watch. &rdquo;Nyaga said if elected, he will be a President who consults and not one who makes decisions on his own. He said as Kenya&rsquo;s first independent President he will build partnerships across party lines without discrimination. &ldquo;I am not going to run a coalition government or a government with two heads as it is not allowed in the Constitution,&rdquo; Nyaga said.Noting that his actions are guided by principles and values, Nyaga said he wants to lead the war on corruption from the front.Transparency International&rsquo;s corruption index places Kenya at 145th out of 176 countries with a score of 26.Kenya attained a below average score in the Index in 2016, showing no improvement from the 2014 ranking. President Uhuru Kenyatta once scolded government officials over rampant corruption, saying the situation is frustrating.&ldquo;I want to restore Kenyans&rsquo; trust in leadership because I am sick and tired of hearing corruption everywhere. It has crippled the government,&rdquo; Nyaga said. He said the theft of public resources is to a large extent the reason why the government could not pay doctors and teachers. &ldquo;The endless strikes disrupted learning and led to deaths in hospitals. The factors that have prevented the country from solving this is simply the failure of leadership,&rdquo; Nyaga said.Presidential aspirant Joe Nyaga yesterday promised to pay government employees and attract investments by the same amount of public funds stolen in the Jubilee administration.The former Cooperatives minister said the country has enough resources to meet its demands.Nyaga said the Jubilee government has failed to pay its employees and meet the expectations of Kenyans because its top brass is busy stealing.&ldquo;I aim to have no less than 50 per cent of all senior government appointments going to women,&rdquo; Nyaga said in Nairobi during the launch of his presidential bid.He promised to improve infrastructure, invest in science and technology and build skills as part of the goodies to Kenyans if elected.The former minister said the problems facing Kenyans are a result of poor leadership.&ldquo;The people in power understand our weaknesses. That is why they can steal from us without fearing anything.&rdquo;He went on, &ldquo;I will be a Commander-in-Chief who is in charge and does not leave others to make decisions as I watch. Yes, I shall consult and take advice.&rdquo;Nyaga said when he is elected President, he will be a leader that consults and not one that makes decisions on their own. He said as Kenya&rsquo;s first independent President he will build partnerships across party lines without discrimination. &ldquo;I am not going to run a coalition government or a government with two heads as it is not allowed in the Constitution,&rdquo; he said.Noting that his actions are guided by principles and values, Nyaga said he wants to lead the fight against corruption from the front.Transparency International&rsquo;s corruption index places Kenya at 145th out of 176 countries with a score of 26.Kenya attained a below average score in the Index in 2016, showing no improvement from 2014 rankings.President Uhuru Kenyatta once scolded government officials over rampant corruption, saying the situation is frustrating.&ldquo;I want to restore Kenyans&rsquo; trust in leadership because I am sick and tired of hearing corruption everywhere. It has crippled the government,&rdquo; Nyaga said. He said the theft of public resources is to a large extent the reason why the government could not pay doctors and teachers. &ldquo;The endless strike disrupted learning and led to deaths in hospitals. The factors that have prevented the country from solving this is simply the failure of leadership,&rdquo; he said.