Coast regional coordinator Nelson Marwa says he will don military gear and be on the ground to ensure peace during campaigns in the area.IEBC announced that the official campaign period for the August 8 elections is to kick off on Sunday."There is no cause for anxiety. That one you can take it from us,&rdquo; Marwa said on Saturday.The tough-talking administrator said the government will not allow a repeat of violence witnesses in Lamu. Tana River and other parts of the Coast in the polls.In 2013, at least four police officers were killed on the eve of the March 4 general elections in Mombasa&rsquo;s Changamwe area and Kilifi&rsquo;s Chonyi area by suspected Mombasa Republican Council members.Read: MRC launches fresh bid to stop elections in CoastMarwa now warned politicians and businessmen against using youth to cause chaos.&ldquo;This time, you know, we were just warming up. You will see me in a certain uniform, actually military outfit you have never seen in your life. I can tell you this for a fact,&rdquo; said Marwa. &ldquo;Anybody, regardless of your rank or who you are - whether a governor, MP, a billionaire, my brother, my sister - if you disrupt peace or issue threats in this region the law will deal with you on the spot. That is the position we are taking,&rdquo; he added.He spoke in Bamburi, Mombasa where he flagged off the peace caravan which snaked its way through the hotspots of Kisauni and Nyali constituencies. The government has put in place measures to ensure everybody participates in building peace in the country, he noted.Marwa said very few countries experience the peace Kenya enjoys and Kenyans should guard it with jealousy.&ldquo;We will be focusing on early warning signs. We are not dealing with conflict. We are not going to be saying we shall leave no stone unturned. That is stupidity,&rdquo; said Marwa.&ldquo;We want to leave stones unturned before Kenyans die by dealing with early warning signs that may lead to conflict,&rdquo; said Marwa.He said drunkards will be arrested and put in custody to prevent incidents of violence.Phyllis Mwema of Kenya Community Support Centre (Kecosce) said they have already identified potential areas of conflict.&ldquo;We have already seen early warning signs in Lamu, Tana River and Kilifi where there are groupings,&rdquo; said Mwema.Mombasa county commissioner Evans Achoki said the government has already identified hotspots where police presence will be heavier than usual.These include Kisauni, Changamwe, Likoni and Nyali constituencies.[VIDEO] NCIC identifies 19 counties at risk of violence in 2017