IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati has spoken exclusively to the Star and explained why he will deliver a free and fair election on August 8. He told the Star’s political editor Paul Ilado that with less than 100 days to go, all boxes are ticked. The court ruled that they have no powers on education qualification certificates and it is the IEBC to determine. How are you going to handle it? We have an inter-agency collaboration, including the Ministry of Education and the Commission of University Education, that will determine the authenticity of certificates presented by candidates. Nothing else is required on academics. Does the IEBC have the powers to discipline those who cause chaos, even at primaries? Yes, we will implement the Code of Conduct, which most of the political parties have subscribed to. We are compiling all malpractices that are occurring during the primaries. The cases will be addressed by the Code of Conduct Enforcement Committee in the commission. What do you consider your main challenge ahead of the August polls? First, it is important to confirm that the commission is ready for the August elections. However, our main challenges are one, surprises from the courts, occasioning extensions of timelines; and two, the increased political temperatures leading to tension and pockets of violence. Nonetheless, we remain committed to addressing these hiccups and deliver a credible election that is free and fair. The court ruled that the results announced at the polling stations remain final. What are your thoughts? They have always been final but you cannot announce a winner from results from one polling centre. We will leverage on available technologies, including scan results, and avail them on our website in addition to the realtime results via text to ensure prompt delivery of official results, being mindful of social media such as WhatsApp and the anxiety unofficial results can cause. When you said the IEBC is ready for the elections, kindly break for us what you are doing step by step to ensure the August polls are smooth. Elections are largely a matter of getting logistics finalised and tested in good time. One, we started with developing a clear Elections Operation Plan [EOP], which we continue to update and review as and when necessary. Both the processes and outcomes will be certain. The challenge in 2013 was that critical processes were undertaken at the tail end. Two, the requirement for voters to verify their registration status electronically during the month-long exercise from May 10 provides a tremendous opportunity to test the technology to be used on voting day. Three, training and capacity building is being undertaken in good time and more comprehensively. We have now devolved our operations and aligned ourselves to the 47 counties from the 17 regions to increase efficiency. Four, the new County Election Managers (CEMs) are permanent and well-equipped professional IEBC staff. This goes a long way in our preparations. Describe to us how the presidential tallying centre would look like? It will be centralised, where the chairman and the commissioners will be in charge and supported by our secretariat. Only duly accredited agents will be allowed access. In our continued adoption of appropriate technologies in the electoral management process, the Centre will have internet connectivity and a media centre. The law gives you seven days to announce presidential results. How long do you think it would take to declare the results? Certainly not a second longer than the time required under the law. Our approach is a balance of speed and accuracy, but we look forward to giving results before the timeline provided under the law. Some international observers have raised the red flag on possible violence. What are you doing as a commission to avoid such an eventuality? The scare mongering is unfortunate. We are, however, working closely with law enforcement agencies as well as supporting various community peace building initiatives. As a commission, we will strictly enforce the Electoral Code of Conduct. We have a formed an inter-agency working framework with all law enforcement agencies, which includes security agencies, ODPP and the Judiciary’s Committee on Elections. Plans are being finalised for training of IEBC staff, ODPP and security agencies on security and election preparedness. The immediate former commission was accused of being unfair. How differently do you plan to conduct these elections? The current commission is committed to deliver a free, fair and credible election in August and towards this end, we have made our plans more meticulous and involved all stakeholders in the preparations. We also have more frequent and timely communication. In the 2013 election, equipment was bought but most malfunctioned on the eve of the elections. How sure are you about the new ones? We have new equipment already procured and supplied 10,000 units. We have scheduled stringent simulation and stress tests in June, two months to the elections. No last-minute issues. How many police officers will be deployed in the August polls? There will be two police officers per each of the 40,700 polling stations, in addition to those monitoring. How many elections officers would you have on election day? Over 300,000; one of the largest mobilisations. Now that you have adopted an integrated electoral management system, what would you do with gadgets acquired in 2013, that is, BVR kits and EVIDS? We will be guided by the Public Procurement and Disposals Act in handling this equipment.