The &lsquo;rising national debt&rsquo; issue keeps re-appearing, and has become the focus of the opposition campaign and its surrogates, especially since Jubilee secured from China a Sh370 billion loan to extend the standard gauge railway from Naivasha to Kisumu.NASA flagbearer Raila Odinga has tried to make this a campaign agenda, and has called for the project to be scrapped or reversed. His statements betray, once again, that attacking the government is more important than advancing the country&rsquo;s development agenda, and caring for his own constituents. He will have to explain why a high-speed train that will trigger economic development and create jobs in Western and Nyanza regions &mdash; his own backyard &mdash; should be cancelled.The answer is simple for all who haved followed Raila&rsquo;s political career. If he doesn&rsquo;t take credit for something, he tries to discredit it, even if it is good for Kenya and the people.The opposition&rsquo;s excuse for opposing the SGR extension is another red herring. They claim the government is making the national debt unsustainable. However, as any junior policy or financial expert knows, in resource-starved economies debt financing, if done properly, leads to higher growth and adds to the capacity to service and repay external and internal debt.Reasonable levels of borrowing by a developing country are likely to enhance its economic growth. This becomes effective as long as borrowed funds and some internally ploughed back funds are properly utilised in productive investment.This is clearly the case under the Jubilee government. During the last four years, this government has made massive investments in infrastructure, to meet Vision 2030 goals and move this country towards upper middle-income country status by 2030. It has laid the foundation for growth, and embarked on an agenda of aggressive development and growth. These investments will, by any macro and micro economic model, pay for themselves in the medium term.President Uhuru Kenyatta has built new roads and railways, which have connected Kenyans in unprecedented ways in just under four years. This is still ongoing. Infant mortality rates have significantly gone down, life expectancy has risen and a far greater number of Kenyans have access to higher levels of healthcare. In addition, many more Kenyans have become connected to power and have internet access. These lines of communication, stronger health facilities and infrastructure are the building blocks of our national growth and progress.As opposed to what the opposition suggests, the price for moving Kenya forward in unprecedented ways has not been astronomical and unstainable. Not only is it in line with many similar economies, but also way ahead of several of the developed economies in the world.Kenya currently has a relatively modest rate of around a 50 per cent debt to GDP ratio. However, comparing with the Eurozone, which has 90.7 per cent, the US has 104 per cent and Japan has a staggering 250 per cent debt to its GDP ratio. Simply put, Kenya&rsquo;s external debt burden indicators do not breach any of the relevant policy dependent thresholds.The main task of any government is to see to the welfare of its citizens, and to improve their quality of life, now and in the future. And if any leader did not fulfil this mandate, the opposition would rightly condemn and abhor such neglect and disregard.As this is clearly not the case, the opposition led by Raila has created hysteria about a national debt, which is extremely modest in comparison with most of the leading economies in the world, and is seen as not only necessary but also an obligation by experts.If Raila is going to attack the policy of &lsquo;Invest to Progress&rsquo;, he has to explain how he would do things differently. Where would the money to afford a massive ODM-led aggressive development and growth agenda come from? At the moment, ODM appears to suggest the opposite. Raila has stated that he will review all these infrastructure projects, and possibly halt or reverse many of them.However, he will have to explain, not just to his Luo_Nyanza people and Musalia Mudavadi&rsquo;s Luhya why the SGR will not reach Naivasha and neighbouring regions. He will also have to explain why average Kenyans should not have access to medicine, higher levels of education, electricity, internet, roads, train and ferry systems.This is the kind of reversal of progress that a Raila presidency would bring and Agwambo states this openly.