It's Thursday morning and 207 new advocates are ready to be admitted to the bar at the Supreme Court. Among them is one extraordinary man, David Makara.When the oath taking time comes, the master of ceremony asks the advocates-to-be to hold the Bible with the right hand and the oath, written in an A4 sheet of paper, with the left hand, and read after him.It is at this point that Makara's mind races back 15 years ago, when he lost him right hand to a rogue police officer. To read the oath, Makara hangs the paper on what was left of his arm after it was amputated just below the elbow. After taking the oath and with excitement written all over his face, Makara, who had a stint of street life, did the way of the cross and jumped, celebrating his achievements.His is a painful story with a beautiful ending. He remembers the 15th day of December 2002 as if it were yesterday. It was a normal day and in the evening, at around 6.30pm, he went to Nyahururu to collect a video cassette. "I ran a video showing business at the time and there was a video library in town," he says.While in the library, a group of police officers came in and held him by the belt, asking if he knew a guy they had handcuffed. Makara said yes and immediately, he was told he was under arrest. "I came to learn later that the officers had been drinking at a nearby joint and they didn't have the money to clear the bill, so they came looking for bribes," Makara says. He was asked for money but declined to give and they were thrown into a waiting police vehicle. "It then dawned on me that indeed I was being taken to the station. One of the officers asked me if i had any money so he can give me back my freedom," remembers Makara.He had Sh70 on him. He handed it over to the officer, who then asked him to remain in the vehicle as the others alighted at the station.At the Nyahururu police station, as other officers escorted those arrested to the booking office, him and the one who was to secure his freedom were left behind. "He escorted me a few steps towards the gate and asked me to leave."It was at this point that his life took a U-turn. While approaching the gate, another officer shot at him three times. "I think the officers disagreed on how to share the money and one of them decided to shoot me on accusation that i was escaping though i wasn&rsquo;t running."Lifting his amputated right hand, Makara showed where the bullets hit him. "One bullet hit my hand, one hit me just below the hip on the right and the other one missed me," he explains.Sensing danger, Makara started running but a few metres away he felt his hand was heavy and numb. "I looked at it and i was shocked, it was just hanging and i was bleeding badly."Though weak, Makara gathered energy and ran to the Nyahururu general hospital which is just across the station where he fainted on arrival. "I was admitted and booked for surgery as an emergency," he says.While unconscious, the officers came to the hospital and demanded he be handed to them since he was a criminal and that's why they shot at him. "Miracles do happen because the hospital declined the release me. Some nurses had overheard them saying they will pick me and finish me."That night, Makara was amputated. A few days later the police went to the ward where Makara was and told him he was being charged for stealing. "This was meant to justify and cover up for the shooting." They chained him on the hospital bed from the leg.Before the shooting incident, Makara was a volunteer with St Martin Catholic Social Apostolic and a choir leader in his local church.The charge sheet read that on the previous Sunday, between 10am and 11am, with two other people, Makara had snatched a lady&rsquo;s purse in Nyahururu town. "On the Sunday they referred to and at the same time they quoted, i was leading a church service. "The police actions infuriated the people from the church who had spent that entire day with the then 22 year old. They started demonstrations the following day.The protests attracted the attention of the International Justice Mission (IJM) who sent an advocate to interview Makara in Hospital. Following the mass demonstrations, nine people from the church and the NGO he worked for were arrested and arraigned. "They were charged with a breach of peace. A few days later, Amos Wako the then Attorney-General dropped the charges."A month later, Makara was taken from the hospital into the cells and was charged with robbery with violence, then an unbailable offence. He declined to have committed the offence."Imagine losing your right hand and then being accused of a capital offence you never committed. It was a very difficult time for me," said Makara with his eyes fixed at one point.His freshly amputated hand was not healed and was oozing pus while in remand. There he met other people who were undergoing similar injustices and that is when he decided that if he ever regains his freedom, he was going to pursue law to fight for people in such circumstances.Through lawyer Victor Kamau, now the Kenya National Commission and Human Rights -KNCHR head of Redress and legal department, IJM represented him in court. Victor, who is blind always arrived at the court very early according to Makara. "It was a tussle between Makara, a boy from a very poor family, amputated and disabled, and a lawyer who too was disabled, and the policemen.To me, the case seemed lost," confessed Makara.Three months after the case was filed, it was dropped and Makara was freed. Makara says Victor, who came to witness him being admitted to the bar is an icon in his life. "He inspired me to pursue law, every time i watched him represent me in court i knew if he can do it without eyes i can do it without a hand," he says. Two months after he was freed, the four police officers and the then Nyahururu OCS were arrested and charged at a Nairobi court. They were charged with "unlawful wounding."They were later freed after court failed to find them guilty. "I have met one of them since and i have forgiven them. I have no grudge against them but i am an enemy of injustice."In 2015 he filed a constitutional petition and was awarded a compensation of Sh500,000 by a Nakuru court.After the verdict, Makara approached St. Martin Catholic Social Apostolic and they sponsored him for a diploma course in law.He would later be sponsored by IJM to join the Pentecostal University of Uganda for a bachelor&rsquo;s degree in law. "I graduated with a second upper-class honours in 2013."Makara then joined Kenya School of law and is now an advocate. He has been working at St Martin Catholic Social Apostolic as a legal adviser, a post he left briefly to try his hand in politics. "I wanted to represent Igwamiti Ward in the Laikipia County Assembly, but I lost in the primaries. I am still figuring out my next move."Life was not been easy for the 37 year old who had to learn on using his left hand. "With time i got used. Though my hand writing is not romantic at all, i can write with some speed," he says. Makara who is married with three children says he finds it a challenge having to be assisted with simple chores which he used to do without effort. "Like today when i was coming here, my shoe races untied and i had to ask a stranger on the streets to tie them for me," he says.As he begins his journey as an advocate, Makara promises to hit hard on injustices. "I will go on record as the advocate who fought against police brutality and injustices." He lives in Mwireri, a small town in Nyahururu.