It&rsquo;s hard to be a woman. You have to think like a man, act like a lady, look like a young girl and work like a donkey. So goes a sad, but true saying.It has been said women have to work twice as hard to gain half the credit men do at the workplace. Many career women face numerous challenges in their bid to break the glass ceiling. Bring in children to the equation and it becomes a concrete ceiling.Look at the list of blue-chip companies on the Nairobi Stock Exchange. How many have women at the helm? In the political arena, the Kenya Women Parliamentary Association lists as 16 the number of women MPs in the 11th Parliament ,out of the 290 elected members. This translates to 5.5 per cent.It&rsquo;s a tough balancing act being a mother and career woman and the reality is many are passed up for senior positions because employers feel they might not be as &ldquo;dedicated&rdquo; to the company as is desired.Bill to extend maternity leaveA new bill seeks to fight for the rights of mothers to balance their duties as mothers and career women by extending maternity leave.The Employment (Amendment Act) 2017 seeks to extend maternity leave from three to six months, though mothers will not receive a salary for the extra three months.The bill, sponsored by Buuri MP Kinoti Gatobu, seeks to amend Section 29 of the Employment Act.A section of the bill reads, &ldquo;Breastfeeding is the first preventive health measure that can be given to a child at birth. It is nature&rsquo;s first immunisation, enabling the infant to fight potential serious infection.&rdquo;WHO recommends that children be exclusively breastfed for six months.The Employment Act currently allows for three months of maternity leave on full pay in addition to the minimum statutory requirement of 21 days of leave.Although the bill has been welcomed, many mothers say three extra months without pay is not beneficial.Career Mothers For Exclusive Breastfeeding organisation founder Martha Kimkung says although the effort is appreciated, it seems to only favour well-off mothers.&ldquo;I commend Kinoti Gatobu for the efforts in improving the maternity protection in Kenya. However the extra three months without pay will not help the majority of mothers,&rdquo; she says.&ldquo;Many mothers cannot afford to go without pay for three months. The bill should be amended. Camfeb&rsquo;s suggestion would be that all mothers from all economic categories should be positively impacted by this bill without punishing employers.&rdquo;Kimkung continues, &ldquo;The bill should include the option of three months extra maternity leave working half day for full pay.&rdquo;Many employers are likely to oppose the bill in these hard economic times when companies have downsized and are finding ways to cut costs. Some say if the bill is passed, it might hurt women&rsquo;s careers.Mummy track IntoleranceA poll on Camfeb&rsquo;s Facebook page gathering views on the maternity extension bill drew different reactions, and it was clear there are a number who think it is unjustified.Michael Muiruri* (not his real name) said, &ldquo;When you choose to have a baby, you don&rsquo;t seek your employer&rsquo;s permission, but you want your employer to pay for your time with your child? Are you irreplaceable? What about your skills? Are you the only one who has them? What exactly is unique about you that absolutely no other employee can provide?&rdquo;Such perceptions have made it difficult for women to progress in their careers and have a fulfilling family life at the same time. The are stigmatised and held back because they have chosen the &lsquo;Mummy Track&rsquo;.Some women have opted out of employment altogether and become stay-at-home mothers.Winnie Okeyo says she is lucky she could afford to become a stay-at-home mother after delivering her child. &ldquo;After I got my baby and went back to work after maternity leave, things just didn&rsquo;t feel the same. My heart was never settled whenever I left my baby with the househelp. I wondered if my son was okay, whether the househelp could be trusted&hellip; I looked at all factors and it became clear that I had to quit the rat race and take care of my baby.&rdquo;Okeyo&rsquo;s predicament is understandable &mdash; with all the horror stories of househelps from hell, a mother cannot help but worry when she leaves her baby in their hands.Kimkung says, &ldquo;Women are employed on merit, so to assume that they are so easily replaceable by a person of the opposite sex is a shallow assumption. It is the right of a woman to have a family and a career. In modern society a woman should never be made to choose between a career and motherhood. &ldquo;There are nations in Europe that pay couples who bear children. The extra three months of maternity leave is not for the mother to sit around and laze while the employer suffers. It is for the well-being of the child.&rdquo;Breastfeeding Mothers Bill 2017Another effort in fighting for working mothers&rsquo; rights is in the Breastfeeding Mothers Bill 2017 sponsored by Murang&rsquo;a woman representative Sabina Chege.The bill seeks to make employers provide breastfeeding stations with chairs, electric outlets for expressing milk, a fridge to store the milk and a wash basin.If the Bill is passed, organisations with more than 30 employees will be required to have a room where mothers can breastfeed their babies or express milk. Employers would be required to hire trained staff to take care of babies.The bill also states that employers must give time for women to breastfeed &mdash; about 40 minutes after every four hours.The bill states a breastfeeding mother could apply for flexible working arrangements.Any employer who does not comply with the rules would be liable upon conviction to a fine not exceeding Sh500,000 imprisonment for not more than one year, or both. In 2015, Kitui South MP Rachel Nyamai presented a similar proposal, the Health Bill, but it was not signed.Employers had lobbied and opposed the bill, citing the high costs associated with the implementing it.Last month, Federation of Kenya Employers CEO Jacqueline Mugo said Kenya is losing jobs to East African countries because of its high wage bill.Most mothers opt to stop breastfeeding their babies when they return to work after their three-month maternity leave because there are inadequate facilities to pump milk and store it.Kimkung says, &ldquo;The only private space many women in workplaces find to express milk is in the office toilet, which is not hygienic.&rdquo;Smoking zones but no breastfeeding zonesA petition filed in the Senate in October last year by Grace Kerongo and Chrispinus Wekesa called for the establishment of breastfeeding centres in public spaces across the country. This will be most beneficial to women who work in the informal sector.If the petition passes, all the 47 county governments would be forced to establish breastfeeding and baby care centres in all major towns to help working women attend to their children.When Kerongo and Wekesa appeared before the Labour and Welfare committee in March this year, they said mothers find it hard to get suitable public spaces to breastfeed their babies.They said some women who travel have been forced to use public toilets that have no sitting space, to change their babies&rsquo; nappies.&ldquo;If we have smoking zones, why can&rsquo;t we have breastfeeding zones? Such a centre will create employment for those selling children&rsquo;s items besides ensuring the mothers handle their children with decorum,&rdquo; Kerongo said.WHO recommends mothers worldwide should exclusively breastfeed infants for the child&rsquo;s first six months to achieve optimal growth, development and health. Thereafter, they should be given nutritious complementary foods and continue breastfeeding up to the age of two years.According to the Kenya Demographic and Health Survey 2014, 61 per cent of mothers exclusively breastfeed their children for the first six months of their life.