The Fourth President of Kenyatta, Uhuru Kenyatta, will either be reelected on August 8 or his challenger Raila Odinga will become the Fifth President. Either way history will be made and Kenya&rsquo;s democracy credentials fortified.The sons respectively of Kenya&rsquo;s founding President Jomo Kenyatta and founding Vice President Jaramogi Odinga will be waging the latest chapter of an epic political rivalry that begun in 1966, barely three years after Independence. Fifty-one years later, the Kenyatta and Odinga political brand names are still at it. In some quarters, particularly among the generations that have no living memory of either Mzee Jomo (who died in 1978) or Mzee Jaramogi (who died in 1994) there is an urge that Kenya ought to get itself a political life beyond brand Kenyatta and brand Odinga. Even among those with a now fast-receding living memory of these titans of the Independence struggle, people aged 55 and over, the feeling that the Odinga versus Kenyatta saga ought not to have another rematch is spreading. President Uhuru, 56, faces Raila, 72, after a four-and-a-half-year first term that the latter is absolutely determined to ensure is his final round. The view from State House is that no Presidential first term, truncated as it was to less than the usual full-blast five years, has ever delivered more to Kenyans than President Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto&rsquo;s. In terms of large infrastructure projects, built in partnership with the Chinese, this is unarguably true, but so is the exponential growth of the national debt at Sh4 trillion, up from the Sh1.2 trillion inherited from the Grand Coalition government of President Kibaki and Premier Raila in early 2013. As elsewhere in the world, Presidential contests are won largely on campaign narratives. Jubilee&rsquo;s UhuRuto beat the Coalition for Reforms and Democracy&rsquo;s Raila and Kalonzo Musyoka ticket in 2013 by riding on a sympathy vote against the International Criminal Court&rsquo;s prosecution of the unlikely pair and a mammoth turnout on Election Day (what political analyst Mutahi Ngunyi famously typified as the &ldquo;tyranny of numbers&rdquo; factor) in the Rift Valley and Mt Kenya, achieving majorities in both Houses of the bicameral Parliament. Raila has had a one-term incumbency as Prime Minister in the Grand Coalition administration of 2008-2012, in which he was co-principal of the regime alongside President Mwai Kibaki. Uhuru served as one of two Deputy Prime Ministers &ndash; alongside Musalia Mudavadi &ndash; and held ministerial office. As PM, Raila was only the second appointee to that office after Kenyatta Snr, who served for the 18 months of June 1963 to December 1964 and then became President. On Sunday the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission-declared official Presidential campaign period kicks off, with the strategy teams rolling out all they have on behalf of their candidates. It is only the second Presidential and General Election campaign under the 2010 Constitution. In the first contest, on March 4, 2013, Raila disputed the result declared by the IEBC that showed Uhuru winning the popular vote by 6,173,433, or a percentage of 50.51. The IEBC had Raila second winning 5,340,546 of the popular vote, or a percentage of 43.7. Raila went straight to the Supreme Court with his objections, but the judges, led by the then Chief Justice and President of the Court Willy Mutunga, upheld Uhuru&rsquo;s victory. A furious Raila denounced the Supreme Court as &ldquo;Mahakama Bandia&rdquo; and followed this with a series of highly personalized attacks against Justice Mutunga, a widely respected figure whom he had shared the detention-without-trial cells in the 1980s and 90s under the Kanu one-party regime f President Daniel arap Moi. Raila and his political associates hold to this day that he has had two consecutive Presidential race victories stolen by the incumbent political elite, the Kibaki administration when it sought reelection in 2007 and again, when it was outgoing, in 2013, after the constitutional maximum two-term limit. Even now Uhuru and Raila enter the contest with the latter having loudly declaimed that he fully expects another attempt to steal his victory, but that it won&rsquo;t succeed because he will have fool-proof measures in place. Uhuru remains the only Presidential contender of the 25-year-long multiparty era to have conceded defeat &mdash; to Mwai Kibaki in December 2002, when the latter buried him in an avalanche defeat. Not even Kibaki himself ever conceded defeat. In this regard, Raila is the Presidential contender from Hell, entering every contest with loud protestations to the effect that the other side is in it only for the rigging. Raila has a captive audience in his Nyanza redoubt that believes his every word when it comes to &ldquo;stolen victories&rdquo;, except, of course, when it comes to ODM nominations and his preferred candidates, mostly extended family. It is an article of political faith in Luoland that two consecutive Presidential election victories have actually been snatched from Raila and much of this electorate lives for the day when this dreadful state of affairs can be rectified. In Central Kenya, there is a countervailing unbending opposition to the idea of Raila as head of state and government and commander-in-chief. The Mt Kenya elite never tires of reminding its bedrock vote bloc that Raila has coup-maker on his political CV. And the man himself has confessed to two consecutive biographers &ndash; the Nigerian academic Babafemi A. Badejo, author of Raila Odinga: An Enigma in Kenyan Politics (2006) and the Kenyan-Briton journalist Sarah Elderkin, author of The Flame of Freedom (2011) &ndash; that he and his father were indeed complicit in the August 1, 1982 coup attempt by elements of the Kenya Air Force that was put down by the rest of the Armed Forces within six of the most violent hours in Kenyan history. Until as recently as the command as CDF of the Kenya Defence Forces by General Julius Waweru Karangi (2011 to 2015) there was talk in sections of the military to the effect that they might resist the idea of Raila as Commander-in-Chief on the basis of the August 1982 attempted putsch, Intelligence information and the self-acknowledgement of complicity in the authorized biographies. Karangi was in his ninth year of service in the KAF when the coup attempt happened and was part of the forces that extinguished it. However, a Raila Presidential triumph over a Kenyatta on August 8 would have such a tremendous momentum that there would be virtually no meaningful reference to the events of 35 years ago. The coup attempt was a massively violent event and military caliber weapons were fired for hours on end in Nairobi for the first time. The Kenya Air Force base in Eastleigh, Nairobi, was bombed by attack helicopters, rocking the capital city, as the Army moved in on airmen and their terrified families, regardless of the level of their involvement in the coup. A feature of the coup was the mass looting of especially Asian shops, including wines and spirits outlets, and the rape in their own homes and in front of their own relatives by drunken and trigger-happy junior officers of mostly Asian women, a number of whom were subsequently killed by their male relatives, including parents, on the basis of the &ldquo;dishonour&rdquo;. Among the Rift Valley and Mt Kenya elites the events of August 1 1982 are indelibly associated with the Odinga factor in opposition politics from 1966 onwards, the year Jaramogi was driven out of the vice-presidency and one-party government and promptly formed the Kenya People&rsquo;s Union, the first post-Independence opposition party. An UhuRuto triumph on August 8 certified not only by the IEBC but also international observers would crown the President&rsquo;s political career. But an epic campaign struggle lies between now and that kind of achievement.