A Jubilee politician from Central Kenya was overheard talking of how Deputy President William Ruto&rsquo;s alleged preferred candidates won party tickets in President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s Central Kenya backyard. The MP remarked that most of the politicians who won tickets are largely allied to the DP as he seeks to expand his political influence outside Rift Valley ahead of his first stab at the presidency in 2022. &ldquo;We are just afraid of telling the bitter truth - that Uhuru&rsquo;s candidates lost, in fact it was Ruto who won,&rdquo; the MP said. ***** A woman MP aspirant in Murang&rsquo;a county is scared to the bones. The lady in question has gone back to the drawing board, after she spent a fortune to ensure she clinched the Jubilee ticket, which she did. The woman used her sister&rsquo;s senior position to hire police officers who intimidated voters in her rival&rsquo;s strongholds and after paying the over 50 officers, she does not have the cash to sustain her campaigns. With the campaigns likely to become increasingly gruelling in the coming days, it is not clear how she intends to fund the demanding campaign expenses .***** Are some wealthy politicians hiring hit men to silence their worthy opponents ahead of the General Election? Well, it is common knowledge that some politicians have gone a notch higher to deal with criticism and are hiring goons who are trailing their opponents. Even as security agents continue with their usual deep nap, clueless about the schemes, many politicians are worried that they could be in harm&rsquo;s way. Last week, hired goons descended on Bungoma local musician Joseph Kubende, who has been using satire in songs to pinpoint alleged corruption in Bungoma county. All eyes are now on tough-talking Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery and other officials charged with national security to ensure politicians do not hire assailants to threaten the lives of Kenyans expressing their democratic right.***** A senior Jubilee politician in Nairobi who lost the party primaries shocked parliamentary staff when he carted away his documents from his Continental House office, even before his term comes to an end. The lawmaker, who has since the humiliating defeat retreated into his personal businesses, is said to have told his friends and colleagues that he has decided to quit active politics and is just preparing his transition. Since losing the primaries, he is said to have made several trips to the Middle East, more than he made for the last four-and-a-half years combined. It seems he is expanding his business empire.