Opposition chief Raila Odinga was yesterday given the nod to fly the ODM presidential flag, and promised he will not disappoint his supporters in the August 8 general election. While accepting the nomination by delegates of his party at the Kasarani gymnasium, Raila fired a salvo of warnings at the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, saying Kenyans will not accept monkey business this time round. “We will not allow anybody to steal the elections. If they love this country, they should not contemplate or imagine to steal the election because we will not let them get away with it,” Raila told the Wafula Chebukati-led commission. The ex-premier vowed to lead from the front “to liberate the country for the fifth and last time” from oppression by “greedy” leaders working with impunity to perpetuate the status quo. “I will work diligently with my NASA colleagues to deliver victory in the August 8 polls. I promise I will not let you down this time round,” Raila said amid thunderous applause from delegates. Raila said the opposition had mapped the country and established it already has 10 million votes to defeat President Uhuru Kenyatta in round one and avoid a run-off. “By the time we get to the election, we should have 12 million strong votes,” he said. The ceremony was also attended by his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka and Premier Cabinet Secretary nominee Musalia Mudavadi. Principals Moses Wetang’ula was said to be in Uganda, while Chama Cha Mashinani leader Isaac Rutto sent apologies because he had engagements in Bomet. Raila has branded his campaigns around a rallying slogan “10 Million Strong” in what is seen as a strategy to boost confidence among NASA supporters against the alleged Jubilee tyranny of numbers. Raila promised to rewrite the script of dishonoured political agreements saying he will not cling to power. He said he will honour the NASA MoU signed with affiliates Wiper, ANC, ODM, CCM and Ford Kenya. The arrangement states Raila will be a one-term president if he wins, and hand over the mantle to his colleagues in 2022. “We will disabuse the notion that political deals are meant to be broken, I will engage politics of honour, decency and integrity devoid of greed and conspiracy,” the ODM chief said. In his acceptance speech, Raila led his co-principals in urging for unity among aspirants for various positions.