Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho is free to attend the Standard Gauge Railway launch, government spokesman Eric Kiraithe has said.On Sunday, Joho took a swipe at the government over an additional cost of Sh100 billion for the railway.He said he will stop the occasion should his questions not be answered when President Uhuru Kenyatta commissions the first phase of the SGR on Wednesday."Nataka nipate nafasi niende kwa hiyo jukwaaa niwaulize pesa wameiba wamepeleka wapi. Nataka niwaambie marupurupu wamepata lazima warudishie Wakenya (I would like an opportunity to speak from the podium and ask where the money they stole is. I want to tell them they must give all the profits back to Kenyans)," he said.Read more: Account for extra Sh100 billion for SGR or I will stop launch, Joho tells UhuruKiraithe said can attend the launch but must follow protocol."The government has a protocol office to organise the programme. My only advice for Joho is not to go to the media and tell them he wants to be part of the programme," he told a media briefing at Travellers Beach Hotel on Tuesday."I hope Joho has the capacity to understand how these events are organised. He cannot be an exception."Kiraithe further said Joho should celebrate the launch with other Kenyans. The Governor has a frosty relationship with Uhuru who jetted into Mombasa on Monday evening for the launch of a multi-billion shilling project at the Mombasa port this evening.&ldquo;All mischief notwithstanding, the government wants every Kenyan to feel they are part of this victory because it is a victory for all," Kiraithe said.&ldquo;Joho should celebrate because, in terms of tourism and job opportunities, the people he leads have a lot to celebrate."There have been exchanges between Joho and Uhuru over developments in Mombasa. Other bones of contention include Jubilee and the Opposition's fight to control the Coast and the establishment of a dry port in Mombasa. This is aimed at easing the movement of goods through the Standard Gauge Railway.In March, Uhuru asked Joho to focus on Mombasa issues instead of following him around as if he (Uhuru) is his "wife"."It is a sad thing to have leaders who don't understand...don't play with me....Mombasa is for everyone," Uhuru said at Mtongwe. "Why follow me? Why should we follow each other? I am not his wife."This was after Joho was barred from attending Uhuru's relaunch of Mtongwe ferry services. The Governor was surrounded by heavily armed police officers at Nyali bridge amid allegations that Uhuru ordered his arrest.More on this: [AUDIO] Stop following me like I'm your wife, Uhuru tells Joho at Mtongwe ferry launchAlso see: [VIDEO] Joho barred from attending Uhuru's Mtongwe ferry launch