Farmers' welfare remains paramount even as the government moves to import maize and sugar to stabilize flour and sugar prices that have skyrocketed in the past six months. Read: Higher food prices due to drought, shortageDeputy President William Ruto says the importation will be moderated to avoid hurting local farmers through excessive importation. &ldquo;We have to be careful. There are those pushing us to import. We know where the solution is, others are only concentrating on the problem,&rdquo; Ruto said.The DP spoke on Saturday during a rally in Mumias West Constituency, Kakamega County.His remarks came just a day after 30,000 metric tonnes of maize arrived at the port of Mombasa from Mexico. Agriculture CS Willy Bett said the consignment would help bring down maize flour prices to about Sh110 per 2 kg.Read: Expect drop in flour prices in a week - CSRead: Maize from Mexico will not come that cheapAlso read: State not colluding with cartels to inflate Unga prices for campaign cash - CS Willy BettA packet of flour has been retailing at an average of Sh150 across the country. On Friday, Treasury CS Henry Rotich said imported sugar would be duty free for the next two months i a bid to bring down prices. Read: State exempts sugar, imported milk powder from tax as food prices soar&ldquo;That is why we are careful as a government not to import recklessly because we must protect our farmers,&rdquo; Ruto said.He said the same degree of caution would be applied in the importation of maize in order to protect about five million maize farmers in the country. &ldquo;Before importing, we must think about how it will affect them because our farmers come first, importers and others come second,&rdquo; Ruto said.The DP said sugar and maize flour prices are expected to come down in the coming week or so once the imported commodities stabilize prices.Read: Price of unga to drop from Sh140 to Sh115 &ndash; RotichOn politics, the DP told the opposition to look for alternative campaign tools as high sugar and maize flour prices were no longer an issue.&ldquo;Let them organize themselves well. Let them tell Kenyans how they will construct roads, connect electricity and provide free education. Flour prices is a small issue we will solve,&rdquo; Ruto said. The DP called on residents in the larger Western region to vote wisely come August 8. &ldquo;At the ballot box, you will decide whether you want roads, hospitals and education for your children or propaganda and riddles.&rdquo;Ruto castigated the opposition for taking issue with him after he criticised their lack of democracy in conducting party affairs. He said whereas Jubilee nominations saw unknown aspirants clinch nomination certificates, opposition parties under NASA were more focused on status quo at the expense of fair primaries.Read: Storm in NASA as Kalonzo son, Oburu nominated to EALA&ldquo;In Jubilee we have a cook who won, a mechanic who won, a hustler and even artistes who won. The other side, someone nominated his son and the other his brother.&ldquo;Clearly, the difference between Jubilee and them (NASA) is like day and night,&rdquo; Ruto said. Read: DP Ruto blind to nepotism in Jubilee, not the best to criticise EALA nominees - Wetang'ula