An experienced Vapor Youth edged out True Gunners 3-2 in the opening match of the Nairobi Governor&rsquo;s Cup County Championship, Nairobi West Zone, staged at the Posta grounds over the weekend. True Gunners scored barely two minutes into the game courtesy of Godwin Bandi. John Mutua then doubled the youngsters&rsquo; lead in the 23rd minute for a 2-0 halftime lead. Vapor Youth, however, had other ideas coming into the second half. Two goals by Robert Sero Mbugua in the 51st and 55th minute restored parity before Davis Agesa delivered a 64th-minute sucker punch.True Gunners&rsquo; coach Fred Otieno lamented his team&rsquo;s ability to deal with aerial balls but was happy with the overall performance. &ldquo;We played well, but our makeshift defence cost us. Most of our regulars are in school so we had to play a number of players out of position. But I am glad we gave them a run for their money,&rdquo; said coach Otieno. In the other match played at the same venue, Kibera Lexus outwitted Amazon Tigers 1-0. Amazon Tigers sat back for the better part of the match before a defensive lapse allowed Kibera Lexus&rsquo; Genaro Omondi to pounce. In the women category, Amani Queens from Kibera thumped Sunderland Samba from Langata 4-1. A brace by Salome Drailler and a goal apiece by Irene Namale and Ajiambo Watang&rsquo;ia did the job for Amani Queens. Elizabeth Mwajuma got the consolation for Sunderland Samba. Earlier, at 11 am, Kibagare Ladies snatched a 1-0 win against Vixens courtesy of an early strike by Kizito AchiengThe second round of the group stage matches will be played on Saturday at the De Paul and Ziwani grounds. True Gunners will be up against Kibera Lexus while Amazon Tigers will hope to bounce back from their opening defeat when they take on Vapor Youth. Ziwani Combined welcome Kitisuru All Stars at the Ziwani. In the women category, Vixens take on Amani Queens at 11 am before Kibagare Ladies tackle Sunderland Samba at 1 pm. Both matches will be played at the De Paul grounds. At the Ziwani grounds, Musa Ladies will be up against Kangemi Ladies at 12 pm.