DEPUTY President William Ruto finally experienced Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko&rsquo;s (pictured) drama. On Thursday last week, he attended the unveiling of Sonko&rsquo;s running mate Polycarp Igathe at the JP Headquarters in Pangani, Nairobi. First, the media invite instructed journalists to be at the venue by 1pm. Sonko arrived five hours later at 5pm. His goons would not allow journalists to take pictures. When the camera persons asked why they were pushed out, all the goons responded differently, &ldquo;Kazi yetu ni kukutoa hapa (Our role is to get you out of this place).&rdquo; Sonko was not bothered while his team was harassing journalists. The media people resolved to put down their cameras and microphones - until Sonko apologised. It worked and the Press conference was later held in a boardroom.===A Jubilee operative who was drinking at a five-star restaurant was discussing out loud with friends how Jubilee&rsquo;s campaign machine focused to blackmail NASA running mate Kalonzo Musyoka. The operative is an aide in the Executive. He said Jubilee is confident of winning several seats in Ukambani. However, his friends responded by quoting several instances to remind him the people who will vote in 2017 are more informed. One of them added, &ldquo;Jubilee has failed in all the wars against individuals in the Opposition. That&rsquo;s why they created the Joho [Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho], Nanok [Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok] and Isaac Rutto [Bomet Governor] brands.&rdquo;===ODM seems to be leaving nothing to chance as far as the Nairobi governorship is concerned. Corridors has established that NASA flagbearer Raila Odinga has vowed to ensure Governor Evans Kidero retains the seat. The ODM boss has vowed to personally campaign for the governor and will in the city at least once a week.===CORRIDORS has learnt that some winners in the ODM nominations are using proxies to influence have leader Raila Odinga endorse their candidacies. They want the NASA chief to work with them only and isolate independent candidates. Most of them are governors from Nyanza who have failed to deliver as incumbents. They want to use the party to be reelected. This will help them tame independent candidates after chaotic primaries given that Jubilee Party aspirants are not a threat in this region. However, many people around Raila are unhappy with the move, warning that independent candidates have numbers, irrespective of whether they were rigged out or they lost. They have asked him to focus on national politics.