We have since covered 10 counties (Murang'a, Kirinyaga, Embu, Tharaka Nithi, Meru, Isiolo, Laikipia, Nyandarua, Nyeri and Nakuru) in this epic journey round the 47 counties of Kenya.We now shift our attention to what used to be called Eastern province to tour the vast and beautiful Ukambani region. Our landing point was Machakos county, where the team did something very unique: We took a tour of a commercial fish farm on the recommendation and official invitation of the county government. Here we witnessed the power of county governments sourcing for external investors to improve the livelihoods and create jobs for their people. The ride up the Mua Hills where the fish farm was situated found us on the balcony of the most beautiful views and landscapes one could ever imagine. Machakos town is surrounded by five hills. On the way to the fish farm, we saw the Kituluni Hill &ndash; the hill famous for defying the law of gravity and instead of water pouring downwards &hellip; it goes upwards! The panoramic view of Machakos town below, the beautiful lake at the People's Park and the winding roads wrapped round the elegant mountain slopes were a sight to behold. In my view, the most beautiful route to take to capture this view is the Kathiani Hill &ndash; one of the other hills we explored. The hill is covered by a man-made forest on top and has a tarmac road winding through it with occasional peeks at the great views below. We had the rare privilege of watching the sun set over Machakos from this Hill. The twisties between Machakos and Wote are a biker's heaven &hellip; the smooth winding bends are, however, interrupted by many bumps designed to keep traffic slow and safe. This road also has dangerous, unmarked bumps that have caused many horrific accidents in the recent past. It was very easy to be distracted by the endless expanse of hills, rocks and land formations that make it a continuous magnet, especially on the bends. The route from Wote town to Tawa Centre on our way to Kitui town was probably the harshest we had taken so far. It was approximately a 40km off-road that was dusty and very sandy. One of the bigger bikes couldn&rsquo;t take the sand anymore and slid to one side to &lsquo;rest&rsquo;. We, however, enjoyed maneuvering the murram roads and making quick and key decisions on the best paths to follow as we finally joined the tarmac at Tawa Centre and rode to Kitui. From Kitui town we took the Garissa Road back to Nairobi and stopped on the Yatta Plateau. It's amazing the irrigation that goes on and the many crops and fruits it produces. In contrast with the dryer parts of Ukambani, it was beautiful to see lush green sections. The Yatta Canal is a great development project that has transformed this community. Seeing fresh running water gushing along the roads was in itself a spectacle. We finished the first leg of #Ride47 in Kajiado county and got the honour of interacting with the Maa people in the vast plains on the way to Namanga. It's very interesting how much development and integrated communities this regional highway has brought. The newly built one-stop border point in Namanga has also revolutionised the town and it was evident from the many new settlements that dotted the hills around Namanga that there was increased economic activity in the area. The leg, however, ended with a very unfortunate incident as two of the bikers were involved in an accident on our way back to Nairobi. A boda boda operator suddenly crossed the highway, occasioning the biker to slam his brakes and lose control; the biker behind him did the same, but the limited reaction time caused him to be thrown over his bike and fractured his shoulder and collar bone. Both bikers were rushed to hospital for medical attention; one of them had to undergo surgery. This is why Safety Awareness is a key component of Ride47. We look forward to a short break before we embark on the second leg of the Ride47.Nick Korir #Ride47