Family and friends turned up in large numbers to pay their last respects to Ugandan city tycoon Ivan &ldquo;Don&rdquo; Ssemwanga during his requiem mass at Namirembe Cathedral in Kampala, where he used to worship.Ivan passed away last week at a South African hospital while undergoing treatment, and his body was flown back to his home country Uganda yesterday.Many eulogised Ivan as a humble, kind, caring and goodhearted man, who didn&rsquo;t discriminate against anyone. Zari, who was married to Ivan but split in 2014, led the mourners as they lay flowers on the casket carrying Semwanga&rsquo;s body. Zari is currently married to Tanzanian star Diamond Platnumz and has two children with him, Tiffah and Nillan."I loved Ivan, I celebrate him. Ivan used to tell me life is too short, so live it to the fullest. He lived his life to the fullest. I will take care of our sons," Zari said.There are several Ugandans who are against Zari inheriting Ivan's wealth, claiming that she is married to Diamond Platnumz and should concentrate on her new marriage. Meanwhile, King Lawrence, who is Ivan's cousin, has had a war of words with Zari over Ivan's wealth. But in a recent change of heart, Ivan released a press statement saying: "The family and friends of Ivan Semwanga would like to appreciate the positive messages we have received in person and read on social media. Messages from politicians, entertainers and common men alike have reminded us that Ivan was indeed a shining star. We thank you for this outpouring of love and support in these dark days."He added: "We have also received and read some negative messages. While we choose not to address these directly, we ask the sources of these messages to take a moment and reach within their hearts for some human conscience and respect for the departed. Not because he is Ivan Semwanga but because he is another human being who has departed and at least until he is peacefully laid to rest, respect should be shown for loss of life to his family, friends and general well-wishers."Ivan will be laid to rest today at his rural home in Nakaliro village in Kayunga district, Bugerere.