Some Mombasa leaders now contemplate quitting politics after they lost in the party primaries. The Star has established that some have, however, ditched their parties to seek reelection as independents. Changamwe MCA Jimmy Odari yesterday said he was rigged out of the polls but has chosen to shelve his ambitions and focus on business and his yet-to-be-established foundation. “For the August 8 polls, it’s a done deal for me. I’ll not seek reelection, but rather go back to my business and establish a foundation to empower the youth and women,” he said. Odari, who has a background in human rights activism, said he will be back in 2022 to run for Changamwe MP. “I want to rest for these coming five years. I will make a comeback in 2022 looking for a bigger seat. I want to be an MP,” he told the Star in Mombasa town. Former Mombasa Trade executive Hamisi Mwaguya lost the Mombasa ODM Senate race to lawyer Mohamed Faki. The polls were repeated on Sunday after the first exercise on April 22 was disputed in some areas. Both Mwaguya and Faki declared themselves winners after the first polls. Mwaguya has remained mum on his next move. The Star could not reach him for comment as calls did not go through. However, he posted on his official Facebook page, thanking his supporters without disclosing what his next move will be. “I want to personally thank all my supporters for coming out in large numbers to vote for me as their senatorial candidate in the Mombasa race. Indeed, the over 12,000 genuine votes is not a small number to take for granted or underrate. For this, our voice has been heard and I will be forever grateful,” Mwaguya said. Many of his supporters have urged him to run as an independent. Mombasa Deputy Governor Hazel Katana lost in the JP primaries for the Senate seat to boxer Abdulsalaam Kassim. She, however, contested the outcome and appealed, blaming “outside forces for my loss”. She told the Star during a phone interview, “I’m waiting for the outcome of my appeal. I will then take my next move.”