Some Kitui leaders have hit out at Senator David Musila and National Assembly minority leader Francis Nyenze for claiming the Kamba community got a raw deal in the NASA governance structure.Kitui Governor Julius Malombe says Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka&rsquo;s deputy president position in the NASA lineup will enable him to win the presidency in 2022.He was addressing a press conference at the Kitui Kefri centre on Monday. Among those present were Kitui county Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry chairman Duncan Singi, Mwingi Wiper chairman Jones Munyithya, Kitui Township MCA Daniel Ngoima, Kyuso Knut executive Kambua Musee and Maendeleo Ya Wanawake Organisaton&rsquo;s Bretta Mbutu. Last Thursday, a NASA rally in Uhuru Park unveiled Raila Odinga of ODM as its presidential candidate, with Kalonzo as his running mate. But on Friday, Nyenze and Musila disagreed with the arrangement.The two addressed a press conference in Nairobi attended by, among others, Mwingi West MP Bernard Kitungi and his Kitui East counterpart Marcus Muluvi. The leaders said Kalonzo should have consulted MPs before accepting the position.But Malombe termed the statement by Nyenze, Musila and company &ldquo;curious, uncalled for and unfortunate&rdquo;. He said Nyenze was in the NASA structure negotiating committee, and is being dishonest.The governor said Musila &ldquo;has no locus standi delving in Wiper, and, by extension, NASA affairs, because he was a stranger having resigned both as member and chairman of the Wiper party&rdquo;. &ldquo;These are just people out to rock the boat.&rdquo; Malombe said Kambas support the appointment of Kalonzo as Raila&rsquo;s DP. &ldquo;We will support him as deputy president and the presidential candidate in 2022 as Raila will not contest then,&rdquo; the Kitui boss said.Malombe accused the Nyenze and Musila-led team of serving the interests of external forces that are scared of Wiper and NASA. MCAs Ngoima and Munyithya said the Nyenze-Musila group&rsquo;s statement is in favour of Jubilee.Singi and Kambua said the Kamba community, except the &ldquo;misguided legislators&rdquo;, are elated by Kalonzo&rsquo;s post in the NASA lineup. They urged all Kambas to support Kalonzo and NASA at the August 8 General Election.NASA co-principals have been under pressure to name the person who will battle it out with President Uhuru Kenyatta. The proposed structure was announced during the rally at Uhuru Park.