Despite celebrations, Kenyans will likely have a long, gloomy Madaraka weekend as rains are expected to continue into next week.The weatherman yesterday said the rains will particularly be heavy between today and Friday in the highlands west of the Rift Valley. The Lake Victoria Basin, highlands west of the Rift Valley, Central and the South Rift are likely to have scattered morning rains and showers and thunderstorms in several places throughout the period,&rdquo; acting Meteorological Department director general Peter Ambenje said. In Nyeri, where the national celebrations will take place tomorrow, the morning will be cloudy and rains are expected in the afternoon. &ldquo;Afternoon showers are expected over a few places on Tuesday and Wednesday, increasing to several places thereafter,&rdquo; Ambenje said in a seven-day forecast that ends on Monday. The same weather will prevail in neighbouring counties of Nairobi, Nyandarua, Kirinyaga, Murang&rsquo;a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu, and Tharaka Nithi. Madaraka Day, June 1, is a commemoration of the day in 1963, when Kenya attained control over its internal affairs, but full independence from the Britain did not come until December 12, the same year. coastal stripThe weatherman said the Coastal strip &mdash; Mombasa, Tana River, Kilifi, Lamu and Kwale counties &mdash; will experience morning showers over a few places today and Friday. There will be morning showers until Monday. Afternoon showers in a few places are expected at weekend. The long rains season is the most important season for farmers.Ambenje said Northwestern counties of Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu are expected to experience morning rains and thunderstorms in few places.good harvestThe rains are expected to improve pasture and crops, which means farmers can expect a good harvest.This could lower the current high food prices in markets and supermarket shelves. Recently, Dr Timothy Njagi, a researcher from Tegemeo Institute, said maize prices in Kenya are three times higher than the global market price. &ldquo;In Kenya, a tonne of maize in the local market is selling at Sh50,000 ($500 ) compared to the global market price of Sh15,000 ($150 ). A tonne of sugar in Kenya is selling at Sh120,000 and Sh40,000 globally,&rdquo; he said. According to the Regional Agricultural Trade Intelligence Network by the Eastern Africa Grain Council, a tonne of maize in Kenya is selling at between Sh56,045 and Sh85,068 in the wholesale and retail markets, respectively.