The maize finally docked. Not only is it here but the price has also been halved in lightning speed. But contrary to popular expectations, there is outrage. People are enraged about deception, not the speed or the efficiency of government in resolving this national crisis. This indignation has been voiced boldly and relentlessly on the cyber and media e-streets through a variety of expressions ranging from conspiracy theories to ugali scarcity memes. The government has been openly accused of lying to Kenyans, and the private corporations have been vilified for their greed. Why are we so angry at people who are selling to us a commodity we so badly need and at a price that we can now afford? Are we just an ungrateful lot that loves to throw tantrums or is the government being dishonest and the private businesses voracious?The &lsquo;Lying in Everyday Life&rsquo; study published in the scientific journal Basic and Applied Psychology Today found that 60 per cent of people lie at least once during a 10-minute conversation. Some are big lies, but often they are little white lies. The former can be damaging but the latter feel harmless and justified to keep the peace between friends, spouses or colleagues. Some startling revelations from this study were that on average men lie six times and women three times a day to their spouse, boss or colleague; that 31 per cent of people lie on their resumes; 13 per cent of patients lie to their doctor; and 70 per cent of liars would tell their lies all over again.The study also found three main reasons why people generally lie; (i) to try and control a situation and exert influence towards getting the decisions or reactions we want, (ii) liars want the lie to be true so badly that our desire and needs overwhelm our instinct to tell the truth; and (iii) lies snowball.They grow little by little, and to cover one lie, we have to tell another one, and another one. Each lie gets bigger and bigger because to admit the truth creates the potential of the entire house of cards tumbling. The truth can be inconvenient because it might not conform to our narrative. However, the jury is still out on whether the government hoodwinked us or not.There are several experts that have prosecuted the specific &lsquo;lies&rsquo; surrounding the maize crisis. I will not muddle those waters further. Therefore, the question I choose to interrogate is why we are outraged despite the government&rsquo;s efforts that would otherwise appear to be laudable.I postulate it is because we are all afflicted with Stockholm Syndrome or capture-bonding. This bond is born by the social contract that we enter into with our governments through a governing instrument called the Constitution. We give up some of our personal liberties in return for the protection we get and their assurance to enforce laws and agreements. We tacitly consent to follow the laws of the State on the condition that everyone else does the same. That way, we are all relatively safe from each other and we all benefit from the other social goods that will result (J Rousseau). In essence, we trust government and those in authority to keep their word.With this trust comes the assumption that those in public service authority are competent and honest people. This is why we willingly give them power to rule over us even when they have not demonstrated any evidence that they are capable of doing so. As a result, we nurture a romantic view of the state because they are the primary protector of our rights and liberties. Through this lens, we are convinced that the state should, can and will improve our lives. We believe that the state only exists to save us. We subconsciously adopt a &lsquo;Serkal saidia servitude&rsquo;. Hence we put too much faith in our politicians and increasingly treat politics as a religion and the political class as demigods. This is why we voluntarily fight their battles and lay down our lives for them. However, romance does not always emulate reality. The high divorce rates attest to this.What we may wish to ponder today is why we choose to trust politicians to take care of our interests but fear the market when it attempts to do the same. Trust is important. So that is not the issue. When we are faced with problems ranging from drought to floods and multiple births, we trust politicians to fix it. We also blame them when things do not turn out the way we hoped they would.The question is where should we domicile our trust, which is necessary for wealth creation and ultimate improvement of our lives?My vote goes to the market. You see, the market punishes greed, rewards good behaviour and ultimately leads to change. If you are an entrepreneur and you price your goods beyond the reach of your customers, inevitably the natural next step is to lower the price. This is simply because the market corrects itself. In the free market economy, entrepreneurs do not enjoy the luxury of greed, particularly with inelastic goods. This is because the rules of the market and the market process put grave consequences on greed. We have over-relied on politicians because they are in charge, and because we believe they must know what they are doing. And this is why we are outraged. It is why we are disappointed. Why we feel let down.So how about government gets out of the business of selling maize and leaves it to the free market. I&rsquo;ve said on this platform that government policy only begets more government policy. And before long, when we complain of high prices of eggs, the government might just start hawking mayai boiro with kachumbari (hard boiled eggs and a pinch of tomato sauce) for a shilling.All men having power ought to be distrusted to a certain degree - James MadisonMugwe is a political economis