After drought, heavy rains are wreaking havoc in Turkana, Lamu, Marsabit and Samburu counties. No deaths were reported in Turkana but at least 1,500 livestock were killed during a heavy downpour. Patoralists, who could not find pasture and water before, said it has rained for about a week now. Kaeris MCA Patrick Napion told the Star on Thursday that animals were swept away and property worth millions of shillings destroyed in most parts of the county. “We have lost over 500 livestock in Kaeris. The floods swept away several manyattas leaving many families homeless," Napion said. He appealed to humanitarian agencies for relief food and medicines as the torrential rains continue. Daniel Ing'olan, Turkana disaster management chief officer, said the county was supplying relief food to at 5,000 affected families. Ing’olan said it was difficult to reach some areas as roads have been rendered impassable. He confirmed the number of animals killed and said Turkana North and Loima sub-counties were worst hit. “The rivers have flooded, destroying bridges on roads leading to Turkana East. It has become so difficult to deliver relief food,” he said. "We are currently compiling information on the losses for restocking after the rains." Thousands of livestock died during the drought that began last September. In Lamu, motorists on the route to Mombasa were forced to drive very slowly to avoid accidents as a result of slipping. Several motorcycle and car accidents have been reported since the rains began. Travellers asked the government to speed up construction of the road saying it turns very muddy whenever it rains and that this has been the case for 10 years. Miraa traders said their activities have been delayed. “Miraa goes bad quickly. That’s why deliveries need to be quick but this has been tricky since the rains began. We have been taking five more hours than usual. It is costly," said driver Suleiman Athman. On Wednesday afternoon, a driver transporting more than 300 bags plunged into a ditch at Mkunumbi area. He had been speeding.  A miraa vehicle that slid and rolled on the muddy Lamu-Mombasa road on May 3, 2017. /CHETI PARAXIDES Livestock were also killed, houses swept away and roads destroyed in Marsabit. More than 2,000 goats and sheep were killed. "I have lost more than100 goats that were swept away last night," Godana Gule a resident of Malgis, told the Star. "During the dry season we lost animals. When the rain started we hoped to save the few that were left but it has been disastrous." Some of the affected areas are Boru, North Horr, South Horr and Malgis. Read: Two children missing after heavy downpour in Marsabit Also read: Schools flooded, 5 bridges swept away by rains In Samburu, hundreds were forced to stay at hotels in Maralal town as they could not access their homes. Mary Nyokabi said she was forced to ask for accommodation at a friend’s house together with her four children. "I arrived from my friend's house to find my house submerged. Most of my property was swept away. I don’t know where to start," she said. Roadside stalls were also destroyed. "There is water all over and there is nowhere to pass," said one of the traders. Resident Joseph Mandela said a section of the newly constructed Kenyatta Stadium’s perimeter wall was damaged. The people blamed the county saying there was no drainage system. “The drainage is so severe. We urge the county to look into solutions," one said. More on this: Rains to continue in May, flooding and mudslides expected - weatherman  Story by STEPHEN RUTTO, @sk_rutto, CHETI PRAXIDES, LEWIS NYAUNDI and MARTIN FUNDI, @martinfundi