Former Kenya Sevens fly-half Biko Adema is the notable inclusion in the Simbas&rsquo; squad to face Germany tomorrow.Adema, who cut his teeth in the 15s team over a decade ago, starts at fly-half for the encounter .Announcing the squad yesterday, team manager Wangila Simiyu, said Adema had excelled in training for the past two months and was very impressive at 10-day training camp in South Africa recently.&ldquo;You do remember Biko played with this team 10 years ago and this is where he made a name for himself and it&rsquo;s good to have him back. He has trained well and he will start on Saturday (tomorrow) against Germany.Four other players are in line to make their debuts and they include Homeboyz duo of hooker Phillip Ikambili and prop Bramwell Mayaka, KCB prop Oscar Simiyu, Kabras skipper George Nyambua and Impala centre Leo Seje Owade from the bench. Skipper Wilson Kopondo makes a return to the side after two years out with injury.UK-based rugby player Joshua Chisanga misses out on selection for the game but will be ready to play in the Africa Gold Cup matches against Uganda, Senegal, Tunisia, Zimbabwe and holders Namibia. Simiyu expected a stern test from the Europeans. &ldquo;We are not taking them for granted. They play in the second tier of the European competition and they will want to prove a point to us,&rdquo; added Simiyu. Simiyu said they will play an expansive game to tire the Europeans who may struggle to play at altitude. &ldquo;From the kick-off, we will go hard at them and play at a fast pace and have our forwards lay the platform for victory,&rdquo; he added.Simiyu said the 10-day training camp has benefited the side. &ldquo;The camp in Cape Town was excellent for the boys. There are certain technical aspects of the game we worked on and I am confident the boys will deliver on Saturday,&rdquo; he added. Kopondo urged Kenyans to turn up in large numbers to cheer the team. &ldquo;This is our first game of the season and I am requesting the fans to turn up in large numbers and cheer us to victory,&rdquo; added Kopondo. Sponsors of the match, Tatu City via their commercial manager, Tito Oduk, said the firm is geared towards supporting the Kenya 15s team achieve its goal of playing in at the World Cup in 2019 and 2023. &ldquo;Fifteens is the bedrock of rugby and it requires planning and resources and this takes time. We are glad to sponsor the event and we wish the team all the best,&rdquo; added Oduk.Squad: 15. Tony Onyango (Homeboyz), 14. Darwin Mukidza (KCB), 13. David Ambunya (Quins), 12. Patrice Agunda (Quins), 11.Jacob Ojee (KCB), 10. Biko Adema (Nondies) 9. Samson Onsomu (Impala), 8. Martin Owila (KCB), 7 Davis Chenge (KCB), 6. Eric Kerre (Impala), 5. Simon Muniafu (Impala), 4. Wilson Kopondo (Quins), 3.Dennis Karani (Impala), 2. Peter Karia (KCB), 1 Moses Amusala (KCB),; Substitutes: 16. Phillip Ikambili (Homeboyz), 17 Oscar Simiyu (KCB), 18. Bramwell Mayaka (Homeboyz), 19. Oliver Mangeni (KCB), 20 George Nyambua (Kabras), 21. Kelvin Masai (Homeboyz), 22. Leo Seje(Impala), 23. Dennis Muhanji (Quins). ends