A section of the Kamba community in Mombasa on Saturday endorsed Governor Hassan Joho&rsquo;s reelection bid, possibly ruffling feathers within the community.Led by Alexandre Mwova, the group of 800 Kambas admitted the community did not vote for Joho in 2013, but said this time it is behind him because of his development record.&ldquo;Joho wants you. Do you want him?&rdquo; he asked the group.&ldquo;Joho, you are our governor. Sorry in 2013 we were divided. This time we are united,&rdquo; Mwova said at the Mombasa Women&rsquo;s Hall.The majority of the community members support Wiper.Kambas are the second largest vote bloc in Mombasa after the Mijikenda community, which commands more than 130,000 votes. The Kambas are the largest non-native vote bloc. Observers say they command more than 60,000 votes in Mombasa.All four governor hopefuls - Joho, Jubilee&rsquo;s Suleiman Shahbal, Wiper&rsquo;s Hassan Omar and Vibrant Democratic Party&rsquo;s Hezron Awiti - are battling for the community&rsquo;s support.Some community members had hoped Omar and Awiti would form one strong team, but Awiti ditched Wiper and formed VDP. This divided the community because out of the four, Awiti has courted it the longest, meeting members frequently in a bid to woo and consolidate support.Most Kambas are said to be strongly behind Omar because of his closeness to community kingpin and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka.On Saturday, Joho paraded some senior county officials from the Kamba community to show he has the group&rsquo;s interests at heart.&ldquo;Mombasa is yours. You are home, just like I am home. The Mijikenda community has nine tribes. If they had 10, you would have been the tenth,&rdquo; Joho said.He said Kambas&rsquo; interests will best be served under his leadership.However, another group of Kamba leaders said the group that met Joho did so in their individual capacities, and not as representatives of the community. Kamba Community Advisory Council leader and spokesman Philip Ndolo told the Star yesterday the community has not yet settled on any governor candidate.