PETER Kenneth&rsquo;s announcement that he will run for Nairobi Governor is informed by the prospect that it is President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s last term. The former Gatanga MP sees himself as the best politician with a national appeal and fit from Central Kenya to succeed Uhuru.Kenneth has twice flirted with running for the Murang&rsquo;a seat. But he miscalculated twice. His greatest loss was his decision to be silent the whole four-and-a-half years, come back and expect to win the Nairobi race against a formidable opponent such as Mike Sonko.He has argued that the Jubilee Party nominations were manipulated. Granted, that they possibly were guided by the fact that anyone and everyone who wanted to vote voted, he was still beaten by a wide margin. He also failed to present any substantive evidence to the party for arbitration.Kenneth is looking at 2022, perhaps on the calculation that Central Kenya has always produced a Presidential candidate. In Jubilee, Deputy President William Ruto is studiously building his base. But he equally would want weaker opponents for the throne, both in the party and the country at large.If an individual wanted to slice Kenneth down to size, the Deputy President would happily grab the opportunity. Did he?Kenneth will not win the Nairobi seat. He will come third. To Jubilee supporters, he is a spoiler for both Sonko and the President. He carves out a corporate image, is only popular on social media and an endlessly indecisive person, while Sonko is highly regarded in the capital&rsquo;s vote-rich regions as their defender.Now that Kenneth has decided to be on the ballot, he also needs to think of a post-2017 strategy. His best bet was to negotiate for a Cabinet slot, but there, the Deputy President also has a say. In fact, it could be this reality that informed his decision to run as he cannot be guaranteed the post.His greatest strength is his track record in Gatanga. He was never made a full minister in President Kibaki and Prime Minister Raila Odinga&rsquo;s coalition government, so he cannot lean on his record in the Executive. He cannot also cite with his long-ago Kenya Football Federation stint.Voters want current and active warriors for their leaders. Kenneth remains outside government, while those in it are making their names known. He has to eat humble pie. Khamadi is a governance and policy expert