Leaders from Garissa have condemned the killing of more than 100 camels in the Tana River county on Saturday.The killings, which took place in Kalabha and Besan Hergessa, Bangale division, are suspected to have been perpetrated by police officers, who also reportedly torched several manyattas. Yesterday, some leaders from the pastoral community, led by the chairman of the Kenya Livestock Marketing Council, Dubat Amey, termed the killings &ldquo;heinous, barbaric and unacceptable in this time and era&rdquo;.Amey said all the evidence points to security officers involved &ldquo;in the wanton killing of our animals&rdquo;. He demanded the immediate arrest and prosecution of all officers involved.Amey said they abused their position of authority to engage in the act. The chairman further said all the families who lost their animals should be compensated at the current market price.The leader also asked Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery to apologise to the pastoral community. Amey, however, said the two warring communities in the area should embrace dialogue. He said this will enable them to air their grievances and come up with a memorandum of understanding on the way forward.&ldquo;God in His wisdom put all of us in this country. We have elders who can reconcile and bring peace between communities. There is no justification for killing our animals,&rdquo; Amey said.&ldquo;We want to tell the police that livestock, and especially camels, are a national asset that cannot be played around with.&rdquo; Garissa woman representative Shukran Gure described the incident as &ldquo;a war by the government against its own innocent citizens&rdquo;. She said the killings were not caused by the clashes between the Somali and the Kamba communities. &ldquo;The Jubilee government is trying to create a rift between two neighbouring communities. We will not accept this as leaders of this area because we have lived peacefully for decades,&rdquo; Gure said.Balambala MP Abdikadir Aden termed the attack &ldquo;an act of economic sabotage&rdquo;. &ldquo;We demand justice. The security teams in Tana River and Kitui counties should be held responsible for the atrocities. Many of the affected pastoral families migrated from Garissa, particularly from my constituency, in search of pasture for their animals,&rdquo; he said.