The private sector should emulate the government in allocating more procurement opportunities for businesses run by women, youth and persons with disabilities. Programme analyst for women&rsquo;s economic empowerment at the UN Women Arjmand Khan said women should, however, fight for opportunities in the private sector and non-governmental organisations, leveraging on experiences in preferential public procurement. &ldquo;We already have a fresh initiative laid by the government. We are now looking at how we can now emulate the government example and bring it to the corporate sector,&rdquo; Khan told a forum for women in business in Nairobi yesterday. The Access to Government Procurement Opportunities programme, initiated through President Kenyatta&rsquo;s directive in 2013, requires that 30 per cent of public tenders be given to youth, women and persons living with disability. Khan said that women running unlicensed businesses were the ones missing out on most procurement opportunities, and that there was an awareness gap in the processes required in getting supply deals. Kenya National Bureau of Statistics data shows that in December 2016 there were more than 1.56 million licensed micro, small and medium enterprises. Out of this, 32.2 per cent were women-owned. The data also shows that of the 5.85 million unlicensed MSMEs, 60.2 per cent were owned and run by women. Gender CS Sicily Kariuki said last August that women and youth had only secured an estimated 10 per cent of the lucrative state supply deals, due to lack of knowledge on how to bid for the tenders, information constraints and challenges in accessing credit. During the forum, Gulf African Bank pledged to increase the number of women vendors from the current 14, which is 4.5 per cent of the total 321 to 20 per cent by the end of the year. &ldquo;We need to show the private sector that including women in their procurement processes is beneficial to both parties. It should not however be enforced rather it should be a self-driven initiative,&rdquo; Gulf Africa Bank head of women and youth banking Najma Jabri said.