The banking stocks, which suffered a massive sell-off in the fourth quarter of 2016 due to interest rate cap law, recovered in the first quarter of the year, the regulator said yesterday. The Capital Markets Authority said trading in banking shares posted a 51.68 per cent growth in turnover in the Janaury-March period compared with October-December 2016. &ldquo;At that time (when rate cap law was enforced), we saw a very significant decline in the value of commercial banks&rsquo; stocks that are secondary traded in the market,&rdquo; CMA chief executive Paul Muthaura said. &ldquo;In the first quarter, we have seen a significant improvement with 51.68 per cent increase in traded volumes on those counters, reiterating that investor interest is coming back.&rdquo; The CMA&rsquo;s Soundness Report for the first quarter 2017, released yesterday, shows that the banking sector now accounts for 27.97 per cent of the total market capitalisation. This is a 19.99 percentage point dip from 47.96 per cent pre-interest rate cap regime. Although banks have continued to restrict lending to smaller and &ldquo;riskier&rdquo; borrowers following the interest rate cap law, the sector has seen improved performance mainly driven by increased foreign investor participation in some of the banking stocks. The regulator projects that this year the market will remain stable despite rising food-driven inflationary pressure, a slowdown in GDP growth and jitters ahead of the forthcoming August 8 polls. &ldquo;We are seeing quite a lot of volatility in the first quarter of the year. Both the NSE 20-Share Index and the All-Share Index are on an overall upward trend, indicating positive stability,&rdquo; Muthaura said. He said that the market stability is as a result of diversification brought about by the issuance of new products such as the listing of 400,000 gold bullion Debentures of South African NewGold Issuer Ltd on the Nairobi Securities Exchange, the government&rsquo;s M-Akiba retail bond and the prospect of the corporate bond issues comeback after the recent offering by East African Breweries. &ldquo;Our market which has been traditionally very equity and debt focused, is finally diversifying with opportunities that are coming from the new products with the prospects of seeing some global depository receipts potentially being issued in the near future,&rdquo; Muthaura said.He reiterated the need for private firms to increase their investment at the NSE as this would increase foreign investor sentiment.