Conflicting reports trickled in yesterday over who between Mombasa Deputy Governor Hazel Katana and Abdulsalaam Kassim would become the Jubilee Party governor candidate.There was confusion on whether Katana has won her appeal against Kassim, who had been declared the nomination winner.Jubilee leaders and aspirants gave inconsistent reports. Jubilee Mombasa chairman Matano Chengo confirmed that the Jubilee Party Appeal Tribunal ruled Katana should be given the ticket. But the election board trashed the declaration.The fights, confusion and misinformation triggered a gruelling struggle among Jubilee officials in Mombasa to have their preferred lineup in place.Two camps have been feuding over candidates to lead the party and those to be given the ticket. Chengo said Katana had a strong case against Kassim and won.But the election board chairperson, Sureya Hersi, spoke to the Star on the phone and said the hearing is ongoing. No verdict has been issued.But insiders have painted a picture of a bitter struggle by President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s handlers to have Katana in the seat.&ldquo;She was poached by Uhuru from [Mombasa Governor Hassan] Joho&rsquo;s camp to weaken him. The plan was that she be in the race on the assumption that she will win because she comes from a majority community,&rdquo; the insider said.&ldquo;They were to present her as a woman who has been subjected to frustration and persecution by her boss, to gain sympathy votes for her and Uhuru. Her loss in the primaries was unforeseen.&rdquo;Katana said she won but was rigged out. She had 9,924 votes against Kassim&rsquo;s 10,785. She cited powerful forces in the opposition party that are allegedly behind her woes. The source said her being out of the race would have been a defeat for Uhuru and a big win for Joho. Katana said the blockage was planned at high levels. Rigging and ballot stuffing in favour of her opponent made her crumble, she said.Kassim said he was not aware that Katana was handed victory. He said he was assured the ticket is his after visiting Jubilee headquarters.&ldquo;No appeal has been made and I take such reports as propaganda. The ticket is mine,&rdquo; he said.Kassim denied that there was an appeal and that he had been summoned by the tribunal. Katana refused to comment on whether she has been guaranteed the ticket.