A father-of-two has revealed that he drinks a glass of his own urine every day and credits it for his eight stone weight loss. For the last six years, Dave, 54 from Basildon, Essex has been swigging his wee and says that it is responsible not only for his weight loss but also his youthful looks and tip-top health.Dave - who went from 20st to 12st - also believes that the practice of urine therapy could be a means of solving the world food shortage - and slashing people's grocery bills.Most days, Dave survives on little else besides one grapefruit and two glasses of his own urine. His only indulgence is a small portion of chips from his local chippy three times per week.In fact for thirty days in 2012, Dave subsisted on nothing else but his own bodily fluids.Dave also uses his urine to moisturize his face and wash in. He maintains that wee is the ultimate anti-aging product.Dave explains: 'After drinking my urine, I feel healthier and fitter than I've ever done before and I've lost eight stone in weight."Additionally, I don't need much money to survive anymore. Because of all the wee I drink, I don't need to eat very much food at all."As humans, we don't actually have to consume that much. Urine can help us reduce what we need to eat - as it contains everything humans require."Most people think your wee is a waste product but it's not. It's actually cleaner than water."Wee is a snapshot of exactly what your body needs but happens to have too much of at that particular moment."For example, if you have an infection then your urine will have the antibodies to fight it. It boosts your immune system and has even cured my life-long asthma."Urine therapy is not just about drinking it, you can also wash in it and moisturize with it. It's the ultimate anti-aging skin product - my lines and wrinkles have disappeared since I began using my wee as a moisturizer."You can even use it to alleviate aches and pain and as an eye wash or a footbath."Urine is a cure-for-all. If people could just change their mentality and preconceptions about this therapy, then anyone can feel the huge benefits."At the time, Dave was clinically overweight at 20st and he suffered from poor health, including life-long asthma.He explains: "Six years ago, I was seriously overweight and very sick, taking regular steroids for my asthma."Having worked as a computer programmer in New York City, my diet was terrible. I would snack on chocolate all day and eat out for lunch and dinner."When I jokingly wandered in to a talk about urine therapy at a festival with my mates, I was truly skeptical. But by the end of the talk, my friends and I came out saying that we got to try this out!"The very next day, Dave began drinking a glass of his own urine twice-daily. Despite his open-minded attitude now, he admits he was initially apprehensive about consuming his own wee.Dave says: "Initially, I was a bit cowardly and squeamish about drinking my own urine."The idea of ingesting warm pee was off-putting so I put it in the fridge so that it was ice-cold. And for the first few weeks, I would mix it with grapefruit juice."But eventually, I began drinking my urine straight-up and it really wasn't as bad as I thought it was going to be."Within a matter of minutes of consuming my first glass of pee though, I felt the benefits. I had lots of energy and my bowel movements improved."During the course of the following year, my weight began to drop off."In June 2012, Dave took his unique habit to a new extreme and decided to embark on a urine fast - drinking nothing but his own pee for 30 days.Dave - who even authored a book on the subject 'The Human Body Owners Workshop Manual' - says: "After a year of drinking my own urine, I started feeling a lot better and my blood pressure went back to normal."I really witnessed the benefits so a year later, I decided to do a urine fast - consuming nothing but my own wee for a month."During the course of those 30 days, my asthma was cured, my energy levels increased and I lost a ton of weight. People couldn't believe the transformation."I realized that I could survive on just urine indefinitely and two years later, I did a 'Breatharian' experiment where I survived on nothing but water for 60 days."I would love to do another urine fast and be filmed the whole time it so people can see that it's real. It's a genuine solution for the world food shortage - as well as weight loss."Through drinking my urine, I haven't been sick or gone to a doctor in six years. The advantages are huge - I have even got my mum into drinking it now!"