Barely six months after President Uhuru Kenyatta commissioned it, a section of the Bamburi road has sunk following heavy downpour in Mombasa county. Soils underneath the road are severely eroded, and motorists have been forced to use one side of the road amid fears that it might sink further. Although deep trenches for a drainage system were dug during its construction, they have failed to curb the damage. Residents have described the project, which was launched with pomp and colour, as bogus. Shanzu MCA aspirant Martin Wekesa said the safety of residents is in jeopardy. Motorists in fear as section of Bamburi road launched by Uhuru sinks“It is unfortunate just
after the first rainy season, we have this kind of damage that has been caused
by the floods,” he said. He said the engineers and
the contractors should have put into consideration the volume of water in
Bamburi and Kisauni area whenever it rains. “The system should have
been commissioned with running waters or during the rains, but we saw the
President coming here during the dry season,” he said. Wekesa asked relevant
authorities to take actions to curb the possibility of accidents in the
area. Uhuru commissioned the road on January 5 in an event that marked the start of public antagonism between him and area Governor Hassan Joho. [VIDEO] Joho lectures Uhuru on hijacking Mombasa projects "We know the history of this project. It started in 2010, under the Kenya Municipal Programme, when Jubilee was not in government. So we want to see projects that have been done by the Jubilee administration," Joho told the President during its commissioning. In response, Uhuru said,
“We shall not engage in divisive politics, but concentrate on development
projects that will help improve the lives of thousands of Kenyan citizens.” Joho was then barred from attending the launch of the Mtongwe ferry during Uhuru's next stop at the county. Late last month, ferry services were disrupted there after waves swept away a pontoon. More on this: Mtongwe ferry services disrupted after ocean waves sweep away pontoon