The grand homecoming for the first-ever SportPesa Mega Jackpot winner is expected to shake Kakamega to the core.Samuel Abisai, who won Sh221,301,602 million and has been termed the 'newest king of Luhya wealth', will be received at Bukhungu stadium on Saturday.After he won, the was driven from his home along Thika road in a Limousine and taken to the Carnivore for a red carpet ceremony.The man who won the biggest payout in Africa's gaming history will be flown to the county. From the airstrip there, he will go to the stadium in a convoy.Among those expected at the fete are Elimah Khanaitsa who won pocketed KSh22,049,424 in January last year, dignitaries and famous entertainers.More on this: [VIDEO] Limo and red carpets: Meet Sh221m SportPesa jackpot winner Samuel AbisaiJoyce Kibe, SportPesa Global Marketing Officer, said: &ldquo;We have put in all our efforts so that Abisai gets the homecoming he deserves. It was his wish to share his moment with the people of Kakamega. Having risen from a humble background, he is keen on giving youth in the region hope that they can achieve what they set their minds on."The 28-year-old was unveiled by SportPesa CEO, Ronald Karauri on Tuesday and has been the topic of conversation since then. He correctly predicted all 17 games last week."The people of Kakamega must feel the effect of his win. He is talking of a sports academy," said Karauri, adding Abisai is a huge fan of the SportPesa Premier League club, Kakamega Homeboyz.The firm will set up a team of skilled financial and legal advisers who will be at Abisai's disposal.Abisai was introduced to gaming by his younger brother sometime last year. The soft-spoken man placed Sh200 on two mega jackpot picks of Sh100 each and won.&ldquo;He should be worth more than Sh221 million in the next two or three years. I will make sure he spends his money well. SportPesa will walk to him,&rdquo; Karauri assured.The lucky man has 11 siblings. He was forced into street life while young but was sponsored by Compassion International until he joined University of Nairobi to study Mandarin.He completed his studies in China and was hired by a Chinese firm in Kenya after returning.