The NASA-ODM presidential candidate Raila Odinga has since late 2016 been punching Jubilee with kid gloves. It is as if he has let the foot off a pedal he had stepped on between September and December 2016, where he tore into Jubilee day after day to much dramatic and political effect. Those were the days of the Murang&rsquo;a Water Collector Tunnel, the aftermath of the TJRC Report remarks by Raila at William ole Ntimama&rsquo;s funeral, the crisis of KDF&rsquo;s withdrawal from UNMISS that was turned into political fodder, the Eurobond II letter of protest to the international financial institutions, Mombasa Governor Joho&rsquo;s &ldquo;Sultan wa Mombasa&rdquo; one-on-one with the state, the creation of a scandal on the Itare Dam project, the Electoral Laws amendments fiasco on manual versus electronic tallying and transmission of votes amongst a myriad election rigging claims that Jubilee. So effective was this perpetual war on Jubilee that the political space was completely dominated by Raila and his minions.Eighty days to the elections, this most effective strategy seems to have been shelved, or has it? There is definitely a storm &mdash; and a deadly one &mdash; coming from Raila. A closer look at his actions reveals a shrewdness about timing. The barrage of accusations that came between September and December 2016 was clearly meant to overshadow all the triumphalism and success of the Jubilee Party launch. Raila sat and waited for Jubilee Party with all its razzmatazz and aplomb to be launched then immediately embarked on a Jubilee negative rebranding campaign with his corruption populism. By December, the Jubilee brand had been so besmirched and tainted with corruption allegations that it is now a herculean task recovering the image of a young, uniting and suave party. Corruption is a tag it carries into the election, whether real or false. So bad was the branding that during the Murang&rsquo;a Water Collector Tunnel fiasco, it was accused of premeditating genocide by causing desertification within its own base in Murang&rsquo;a and downstream in NASA strongholds.The other masterstroke on timing was the unveiling of the NASA flagbearer and the structure of its power sharing. So intense and prolonged had the fight become that despondency had set in even within its strongholds. It was as if that day was never to arrive, yet Raila tenaciously held on, stringing his co-principals along a torturous path that eventually allowed him to bludgeon them into submission. He launched himself as the flagbearer at the right moment, with enough time to consolidate his support base, scatter dissent and launch the blitzkrieg campaign he now has under wraps.The strategy, it seems, has been for Raila to drop bits and pieces of potentially devastating attacks against Jubilee to introduce them into the public&rsquo;s mind and then pick them up in detail and ferocity much later. It is also dumbfounding that we haven&rsquo;t received any corruption allegations based on the Auditor General&rsquo;s reports and leaks. It&rsquo;s clear that this is being saved for the last minute. The allegations, threats and sabotage of the IEBC, capped by a threat to boycott the election altogether, with the political security nightmare the &ldquo;Protect the Vote Movement&rdquo; is going to spin against Jubilee like an American beltway tornado.In fact, a huge bit of this tactical approach leaked and Jubilee was able to nip it in the bud: The Unga/Ugali Revolution was going to be a major plank of the creation of dissent, anger, and, ultimately, mass action. ODM bloggers were unable to contain themselves, going overboard too early, giving Jubilee the time it needed to recover with the advantage of a subsidy that will be a huge campaign bonus for the party. Anybody eating processed ugali will simply be eating a part of the campaign money, making millions believe they are part of the Jubilee largesse. The failure of the Ugali Revolution also points to a clear chasm in the understanding of the masses that the NASA hierarchy has, pointing to just how offhand its once socialist ranks have become. Food revolutions are not announced; they come and sweep everything before them with crashing anger. To try to manufacture a food crisis built on processed flour, itself a very select item, is to completely misunderstand food dynamics in this country and where the plate actually goes empty. Processed flour is a comfort item for the upper middle classes and so is processed milk. A vast majority of plates in this country are filled every night with ugali milled at the local posho mill from maize grown in subsistence. Among the urban poor, maize is either shipped from home and then milled in the tens of posho mills that line the slums or flour is bought from the hundreds of kiosks packed in half-kilo thin plastic bags from flour milled and sold at the posho mill. Packaged flour as the image of a food revolution is silly, and has almost the same effect as the image of a croissant. If packaged flour is far removed from the people&rsquo;s imagery of their daily bread, then processed and packed milk is even worse. These, if anything, are the images of Nairobi suburbia. I hazard to bet that even among the NASA principals, not one of them has his ugali milled at the local posho mill, despite the fact that it&rsquo;s just how the vast majority of Kenyans have their ugali.Nevertheless, Raila is not going to make one or two mistakes too many. He is packing his arsenal with live ammunition and artillery, and when the storm comes, it is definitely going to be a deluge &ndash; of fire. Jubilee on the other hand seems to be so elated by its victory over the Unga Revolution, a pyrrhic victory at best, seeing as even that subsidy is going to be turned into a scandal that will leave the ugali lodged in people&rsquo;s mouths&rsquo; with a sour taste. A cursory look at Jubilee teams online, in mainstream media and on the campaign trail, reveals a campaign that is hardly equipped to counter the Odinga shelling that will come its way. These teams seem only strategically and intellectually equipped to trumpet Jubilee achievements and attack Raila with the old and now lame arrows of the Molasses Plant scandal and other such like ineffective allegations. They hardly have a new, let alone compelling, case against Raila. Immediately the sweet whistle of the inaugural SGR passenger train hits Nairobi, Jubilee&rsquo;s music and dancing will be over, because the Odinga pandemonium will take over, day after day, to depressing effect. The skies are indeed grey and getting pretty gruesome. Whether it is cats and dogs or hailstones that will fall on us, only time will tell. But the rains of the official, IEBC-declared Presidential campaign are coming.