The demolition of kiosks belonging to more than 300 traders at the Buxton stage on Monday night is likely to hurt Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho&rsquo;s popularity.His rivals for the county&rsquo;s top seat have weighed in, criticising his leadership and saying he has no heart for small traders. The county government is yet to issue a statement on the matter. Demolition condemned Senator Hassan Omar, Nyali MP Hezron Awiti and politician Suleiman Shahbal, all trying to defeat the Coast kingpin, have loudly condemned the demolition. Vibrant Democratic Party&rsquo;s Awiti yesterday led demonstrations at the stage to protest the eviction of the traders.He gave the county a three-day ultimatum to explain the destruction or face a bigger protest. &ldquo;These traders must be compensated because their income has significantly been affected,&rdquo; he said. On Tuesday, Jubilee&rsquo;s Shahbal said the Mombasa county government is insensitive to small traders.Joho criticised A strong critic of Joho, Shahbal said the demolition has no legal basis. He said small traders are an integral part of urban economies the world over. &ldquo;They offer easy access to a wide range of goods and services at affordable rates, hence, the need to ensure they are kept in business and create a friendly environment,&rdquo; Shahbal said in a statement. Insiders say the governor hopeful is considering taking legal action against the county government, which would open up another front between him and Joho.Workers harassed Wiper&rsquo;s Omar hours earlier criticised the county government for harassing hawkers and other small-scale traders. The county wants to expand the stage and build more stalls. Currently, there are 30 county stalls at the stage. Those who got the county stalls pay Sh10,000 a month. Those who operate in the open pay Sh30 per day. However, the traders say the county stalls are small and inadequate. According to insiders, the county is planning to expand the matatu stage to have an office for each matatu sacco.Psvs support move The decision has been welcomed by the Public Service Vehicles operating from the stage. Munawar Shuttle director Mohammed Badawy, however, told the Star the county should have used better methods. &ldquo;We are happy about the expansion of the stage. But demolishing property without notice is wrong. My office has been broken into and some luggage is missing,&rdquo; said Badawy, who has an office at the stage.