A 39-year-old businesswoman, Linda Shuma, yesterday was presented as the running mate for Wiper governor nominee Hassan Omar. “My government will be made up of 50 per cent women leaders,”  Mombasa Senator Omar said when introducing Shuma at Whitesands Hotel. “Women’s rights are not tokenism. I’m confident that with women inclusion in my team we shall take over Mombasa on August 8,” Omar said. Shuma is an entrepreneur and founder of the Silver Glitz Events, which handles corporate and social events management. She graduated from the US International University in 2001. Shuma holds a Bachelor of Science degree in International Business administration and a minor in hotel and restaurant management. Mombasa Senator Omar said he has been scouting for the best among 21 women applicants. He described Shuma as a Kenyan from the Coast who has multiple heritage. Her father is a Taita and her mother a Giriama. Giriamas are among the Mijikenda community, which makes up 50 per cent of Mombasa voters. They are followed by Kambas, Luhyas, Luos and other small tribes. Shuma has a 15-year-old son. In her speech, she said she is privileged to be Omar’s running mate and together they will strive to ensure Mombasa reclaims its lost glory. “We will be able to bring sanity, security and ensure we develop our county. I envision a Mombasa that is beautiful,” Shuma said. She said the metropolis has been reduced to village status. “It is no longer a city,” Shuma said. Governor Hassan Joho has been blamed for garbage piling up, poor drainage and other issues. “We will not be giving excuses,” Omar, Joho’s friend-turned-foe, said. In 2013, Joho picked Hazel Katana as his running mate. She is a Mijikenda from Rabai. However, on January 28 this year they parted ways and Katana joined President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee Party to run for the Senate. She said she was frustrated in Joho’s administration. The Coast kingpin is now said to have settled on county secretary Francis Thoya as his running mate. He is also a Mijikenda. However, there are reports he is also considering Tendai Lewa (education executive) and Technical University of Mombasa senior lecturer Dr William Kingi. “I have already made my decision and I will make it known to the public soon. I will let you know. It will be a big event,” Joho told journalists on Wednesday at Tamarind Hotel. Nyali MP Hezron Awiti, who decamped from Wiper to the Vibrant Democratic Party, picked Hassan Mwatoa, a banker, as his running mate. Mwamtoa is a Mijikenda, and Awiti has been backed by some Kaya elders. Awiti, a Luo, is banking on the Luo and Mijikenda vote. Jubilee Party aspirant Suleiman Shahbal, who came second in the 2013 general election, has chosen Ananiah Mwaboza as his running mate. Shahbal is a businessman with vast interests in energy, real estate and banking. Mwaboza, a lawyer, has served as a legal adviser in the office of DP William Ruto. Mwaboza, who enjoys the Mijikenda backing, was Kisauni MP before he was kicked out by Joho in 2007. Shahbal is banking on the Swahili, Mijikenda and the Gema community in Mombasa, who support Jubilee, to win the governorship.