Rainfall will have to improve, oil prices stay low and the policymakers maintain a stable macroeconomic environment for Kenya&rsquo;s economy in 2017 to grow by the same rate as last year. An outlook report yesterday cited increased rainfall to enhance agricultural production, continued stability of the shilling and low international oil prices as key factors that will support a 6.1 per cent growth projection in 2017. Other fundamentals include improved security as a boost to recovering tourism and continued reforms in governance and justice, according to African Economic Outlook report. The study was co-authored by economists from the African Development Bank, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and the United Nations Development Programme. &ldquo;The outlook is positive, with growth projected at 6.1 per ecnt in 2017 and 6.5 per cent in 2018,&rdquo; they say in the report released in Ahmedabad, India, on the first day of the AfDB&rsquo;s five-day 52 annual general meeting. The economists see a higher growth of 6.5 per cent next year. Inflation is, however, expected to stay above five per cent in 2017 and 2018 &ndash; an indication that it could take longer for food prices to stabilise. Inflation last month hit 11.48 per cent &ndash; the highest since May 2012 at 12.22 per cent &ndash; after food prices shot up by 20.98 per cent year-on-year. Economists at Barcelona-based macroeconomic analysis firm, FocusEconomics, said in a consensus report last month they expected Kenya&rsquo;s inflation to average eight per cent this year, and slow down to about 6.3 per cent in 2018.Inflation &ndash; a measure of annual changes in prices of goods and services &ndash; averaged 6.56 per cent in 2016 which is within 2.5-7.5 per cent range targeted by the National Treasury. The authors of the African Economic Outlook report say Kenya&rsquo;s growth of 5.8 per cent in 2016, which was lower than their projection of six per cent, was supported by construction, manufacturing, financial services, ICT and wholesale and retail trade sectors. They see Kenya&rsquo;s growth continue to outperform the average for sub-Saharan Africa, which they project at 3.4 per cent this year and 4.3 per cent in 2018. This is higher than estimated 2.2 per cent last year, with this year&rsquo;s boost coming from recovery in global commodity prices. &ldquo;Although economic headwinds experienced in the last two years appear to have altered the &lsquo;Africa Rising&rsquo; narrative, we firmly believe the continent remains resilient, with non-resource dependent economies sustaining higher growth for much longer spell,&rdquo; AfDB&rsquo;s acting director for macroeconomic policy, forecasting and research Department Abebe Shimeles said in a statement.&ldquo;With dynamic private sectors, entrepreneurial spirit and vast resources, Africa has the potential to grow even faster and more inclusively.&rdquo;The report, however, urges African governments to integrate entrepreneurship more fully into their industrialisation strategies. Although Kenya has sophisticated entrepreneurship by regional standards, the researchers say in the report, it could increase its global footprint through increased investments in information technology. &ldquo;The country aims to have a robust, diversified and competitive manufacturing sector to help its transformation into an industrialised middle-income economy by 2030,&rdquo; the report states. &ldquo;The overall goal for the industrial sector is to increase its contribution to GDP by at least 10 per cent per annum and propel the country towards becoming Africa&rsquo;s industrial hub.&rdquo;