Maseno School won the Nyanza region secondary schools rugby 7&rsquo;s title after a hard fought 24-14 win over St Joseph&rsquo;s Rapogi yesterday. Maseno had to dig deep to record a second win over Rapogi having beaten them 21-7 at the preliminary stage. In yesterday&rsquo;s final, Maseno took the lead with two quick unconverted tries by Pascal Elijah and Brian Ayimba. Ayimba added a drop goal before Leon Nyang&rsquo; made a try which was converted George Obala. The teams went into the second half with Maseno leading 12-7. In the second half, Nyang, the tournament&rsquo;s top scorer, gave Rapogi the lead with try which was converted by Obala. With a minute remaining on the clock, Barnabas Osoro and Elvis Kadima scored two quick tries before Ian Andy scored a drop goal just before full time. In the third play-off, St. Mary&rsquo;s Yala settled for the third position after 33-0 win over Agoro Sare. In the plate final, Homa Bay High School narrowly edged Cardinal Otunga High School, Mosocho 5-0. Kisii School defeated Nyambaria School in the bowl final while St Paul&rsquo;s Gekano High School from Nyamira hit St Pius Uriri 28-5. In handball semis, Oriwo narrowly beat Maseno 29-27 to book a final date today with Kanyawanga, who defeated Rang&rsquo;ala 18-15. Meanwhile, national Secondary Schools Rugby Sevens champions St. Peter&rsquo;s Mumias beat their arch-rivals Mukumu 19-0 to storm into the semis of the Western Region Term 2A Games yesterday at Nambale High School grounds.St. Peter&rsquo;s came for the event as runners up having trailed Mukumu in the finals of the Kakamega County games last week. In the other quarter final, Bungoma High qualified for the semis after beating Musingu 12-10. Vihiga dispatched Ebusiloli 26-5 with Chavakali beating Friends School Kamusinga 26-7.St. Peter&rsquo;s will take on Chavakali while Bungoma will face Vihiga in their respective semis. Nambale will meet Kibabii in the plate final. Nambale beat St Paul&rsquo;s Amukura 24-7 in plate semis while Kibabii saw off Butula 7-0In handball, national and East Africa handball champions St Luke&rsquo;s Kimilili (boys) and Moi Girls, Kamusinga sailed through to semis with ease at Lwanya Girls. Kimilili opened their campaign with a 23-13 victory over Busia champions Butula Boys before beating Nyang&rsquo;ori 33-15. Six times national champions Moi Girls Kamusinga on their part thrashed Losengeli from Vihiga 56-7 before beat Butere 30-13 in their second match to also qualify for the semis. In netball, regional champions St Cecilia Misikhu beat Busia champions Bumala AC 30-11 before rallying back to beat Ibubi 23-11 in the second match.