Machakos residents took to social media on Monday evening and yesterday to criticise Governor Alfred Mutua for claiming the Wiper primaries held on Sunday were not genuine.In a press briefing at his Maendeleo Chap Chap Party headquarters in Nairobi on Monday, Mutua said Wiper lied to the public about the results of the governor race nominations.He said the difference in the total votes cast for the county woman representative and governor was proof that the party exaggerated the results in the governor ticket contest.&ldquo;The total votes cast for the county woman representative in the same area were 89,541. How then could the total for the governor contest have additional voters? These numbers are cooked,&rdquo; Mutua said. He said being a Sunday and a court order in place, there was hardly any big voting going on.However, some residents turned to Facebook to tell off Mutua, saying he is meddling in issues that do not concern him. &ldquo;But why is Mutua bothered about Wiper nominations? Whether they had irregularities or figures were inflated doesn&rsquo;t concern him,&rdquo; Mesh Musyoki said in a comment on Mutua&rsquo;s Facebook post.&ldquo;Nobody asked him what criteria he used to issue direct tickets in his party. It is true what they say, the enemy of your enemy is your friend.&rdquo;Titus Matoyo wrote, &ldquo;If you think they&rsquo;ve cooked figures to suit them, why would you be worried? Looks like things are getting clearer to you that your PR is coming to an end.&rdquo;But on the same Facebook post, there were those who agreed with Mutua&rsquo;s observations.John Kimani wrote, &ldquo;Instead of people criticising Mutua, they should tell us which of the queries he has raised is false. For example, did the total votes of woman representative come to 80,000 votes? If so, how did the governor post come to 299,000 votes? When you look at all the other primaries in Kenya, the total votes of woman representative was at par with the total number of governor.&rdquo;County ODM secretary general Dominic Kaleli yesterday said Mutua&rsquo;s response is a sign of someone who is panicking.He asked the governor to stay away from issues concerning Wiper or any other party affiliated to NASA and concentrate on his Maendeleo Chap Chap. Former nominated councillor Keli Mutua said Wiper primaries for woman representative were not conducted the same day as those of governor.