Were NASA flagbearer Raila Odinga and his JP counterpart President Uhuru Kenyatta in order to skip the Monday pre-nomination date convened by the IEBC for all 18 presidential candidates? Although the political nemeses were criticised by their rivals for belittling the crucial meeting, word has it that the aspirants in attendance turned the three-hour session into a showbiz event. It is said most of the candidates spent most of the time taking selfies with each other amid the ongoing discussion and sharing them with their numerous WhatsApp groups, including their high school alumni ones. It seems the overexcited candidates must have been angry with Raila and Uhuru for snubbing the meeting and denying them more significant selfies. ***** A governor from Nyanza who was controversially awarded an ODM ticket is finding the going rough. The man is said to have stepped into his office for the first time this week since the party primaries late last month. The man is said to have sneaked into his office compound using a strange car, for fear that irate residents would attack him. It&rsquo;s unclear how he plans to campaign, especially in the subcounty that hosts the devolved unit&rsquo;s headquarters. But the man said to have been as poor, before devolution, as a church mouse, is said to be good in one thing nowadays - distributing handouts.***** For the last three days, there has been blackout on a stretch of Kenyatta Avenue, Nairobi. Corridors is told sex workers have suffered major losses as they cannot be easily identified on this stretch. Some were overheard on Wednesday night complaining to each other that despite their efforts to &ldquo;dress well for the occasion&rdquo;, they are unable to attract clients. On the other hand, it is said that men who frequent the avenue to pick up streetwalkers are the greatest beneficiaries as the darkness has helped them not to be identified from a distance or from both stationary and moving vehicles. ***** The process of unearthing a Sh50 million scandal at the department of Housing has already begun. Senior officers from the Office of the President are watching keenly the progress of the probe, to make sure a top official in the ministry is prosecuted.The arrogance and high-handeness of the official in handling and issuing tenders to his relatives is not going down well with some senior government officials who have promised to ensure that the man has a close encounter with justice. Corridors is informed that the man is about to be apprehended and taken to court.