Aden Duale has linked top NASA members to a syndicate of land grabbers in Lamu county.The National Assembly Majority leader said on Wednesday "much of the grabbing happened when NASA principal Raila Odinga was Prime Minister".Duale, who is also Garissa Town MP, said Raila and "his allies watched as many abhorrent atrocities were committed in the country".He urged residents to reject the NASA Pentagon saying the coalition's leaders have no dreams or plans for Lamu."The injustices were perpetrated against the people of Lamu. Such have nothing new to offer Kenyans," Duale said."They worked together so that they could not be held accountable. What can such a group do if allowed to run the country?"He addressed a during a rally at Mkunguni Square during President Uhuru Kenyatta's tour of the Coast region on Wednesday.The other four NASA chiefs are Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper, DP candidate), Isaac Rutto (CCM, Bomet Governor), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya, Bungoma Senator).Raila, who is ODM leader, said in 2014 that decades of land-grabbing are to blame for violence in Lamu and other parts of the Coast. Without naming names, he said the solution is for those who grabbed the land to return it."It is wrong for anyone to blame the Opposition for what is going on in Lamu. The only way for the problem to be resolved once and for all is for those who grabbed the land to return it."More on this: Land grabbing behind Lamu violence, says RailaDuale further claimed Siaya Senator James Orengo presided over the grabbing of 500,000 acres in the region.He said the parcels were part of 22 ranches whose titles were revoked in 2015.The plots, allegedly reallocated to private developers when Orengo was Lands minister, were de-registered.In March 2015, Orengo said he was willing to pay any price to ensure corruption is stamped out of the country. This was after he was linked to a land grabbing scam.More on this: Names of the 22 ranches behind Lamu Lapsset project land grabbingRead: I am ready to pay any price to fight graft - OrengoLand is still the cause of many conflicts in Lamu. Locals cannot acquire title deeds as most of the parcels are classified as public land.But Duale promised the Jubilee administration will ensure grabbed land is returned to locals."We will look at these issues to their conclusion if we are elected back to office in August," he said.Mining CS Dan Kazungu accused NASA of openly marginalising and dividing Coast people along religious and tribal lines. T"Coast people [are merely escorting] the top principals. Why vote where you are not even recognised?" Kazungu asked.Water CS Eugene Wamalwa said he was confident that 70 per cent Kenyans support the Jubilee Party.