Kenya Premier League champions Tusker, Gor Mahia, AFC Leopards and Nakuru All Stars will headline the inaugural SportPesa Super Cup against Tanzanian clubs from June 5-11 in Dar-es-salaam, Tanzania. Tanzania will be represented by Vodacom Premier League champions Yanga and bitter rivals Simba SC and will be joined by Singida United and Jangombe Boys from Zanzibar for the one week-tournament.The winner of the eight-team tournament will face a famous English Premier League side on July 13 and will take home a cash prize of Sh3 million. Runners up in the prestigious tourney will go home Sh1 million richer while semifinalists will pocket Sh500,000. Quarter finalists will receive Sh250,000. Leopards will kickoff the tournament against Singida in the opening game before the biggest clash of the quarter takes centre stage when Tusker take on Yanga.Nakuru All Stars face a baptism of fire when they battle Simba with Gor Mahia facing Jangombe in the final quarterfinal match. The semi-finals are scheduled for June 8 with the final set for June 11.SportPesa Chief Executive officer, Ronald Karauri, said they are delighted to sponsor the tournament which Kenya will host next year. &ldquo;We are excited and committed to give participating teams and their supporters a world class tournament geared towards bringing the best out of each talent in East Africa,&rdquo; added Karauri.Karauri said the tournament gives footballers from the region a chance to showcase their skills and market themselves. &ldquo;The SportPesa Super Cup gives a big opportunity to the East Africa teams to enjoy the benefits of international partnerships under the SportsPesa banner. We are keen to promoting local football by showcasing it&rsquo;s talent to the English Premier League,&rdquo; he added .Football Kenya Federation (FKF) chief executive officer, Robert Muthomi, said the federation is happy to be associated with the tournament. &ldquo;We wish the Kenyan clubs all the best in the event and I believe this is an opportunity to showcase the best our players have to offer,&rdquo; noted Muthomi. The FKF CEO clarified that the tournament will not interfere with Harambee Stars preparations for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers against Sierra Leone next month. &ldquo;The tournament has nothing to do with Harambee Stars preparations and will not interfere with the Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers. Players called up to the national team will not feature for their clubs in the Tanzania Super Cup,&rdquo; added MuthomiHe noted that the 50 percent taxation of betting companies would cripple Kenyan clubs and other sports federations. &ldquo; We are urging the Kenyan government to review the taxation on betting companies and enable them thrive in the country because they are our biggest partners for sports,&rdquo; he observed.Kenya Premier League chairman Ambrose Rachier said plans are under way to have broadcast partner for the league. &ldquo;There have been very many inquiries from far and wide asking when we will be back on television. We are working on it and very soon we will be in a position to announce.&rdquo;