Rainfall is expected to continue over several parts of the country, raising the risk of more flooding. The meteorological services department said the rains will be intense in Western Kenya around Lake Victoria, and in the Rift Valley Highlands. Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo-Marakwet, Nandi, Laikipia, Nakuru, Narok, Kajiado, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia counties will continue to experience morning rains and afternoon showers and thunderstorm over several places. But the projected rains appear to slow down at the Coast, where more than 10 people have drowned in floods or were killed by collapsing structures. The acting head of the Met department said the Coast counties will have showers over few places this weekend, but Monday to Wednesday the showers will come only in the morning and will be replaced with sunny intervals in the afternoon. Nairobi, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang&rsquo;a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu, and Tharaka Nithi counties are expected to experience morning rains and afternoon showers over few places. Government spokesman Eric Kiraithe said the floods have displaced about 100 families in Mombasa. &ldquo;So far, 40 displaced families are being taken care of at Chaani social Hall will 67 are accommodated by well-wishers,&rdquo; he said. Kiraithe said the national government is working with the county government to unblock drainages and stop flooding. &ldquo;The massive flooding in Mombasa is primarily as a result of poor designed drainage systems, blocked channels and illegal construction in natural waterways,&rdquo; he told journalists in Nairobi. In Kwale, the downpour has killed five people with hundreds others displaced and road transport and bridges cut off. Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya on Tuesday said the floodwater has affected water supply after the main pipeline supplying Mombasa through Marere River from Kwale was washed away. &ldquo;We are liaising with the national government to assist locals. They have already formed an emergency response team to deal with the issue,&rdquo; he said. Mvurya said that as part of the response plan, the national and county government has provided 2,840 bags of maize to be shared among the affected families.