Sitting in the Cabin On The Lake and watching holiday makers and retirees cruise by in boats of various sizes in this serene Pine River Pond somewhere in the State of New Hampshire, USA, one would have thought that the whole country was as peaceful as it is here: As eventless as the days that come and go in these woods.This place is meant for relaxing, not politics. Yet the TV will not leave you alone, and every phone call must end with the question: &ldquo;Have you heard the latest?&rdquo; The &ldquo;latest&rdquo; is assumed to be obvious. It is not about the basketball games or the tree that fell on the house next to you: It is about Trump. President Donald Trump.Having been in office for only four months, and having got there through an election that was as controversial as it was surprising in its outcome, Trump has somehow never believed that he won the election. The urgency and frequency with which he has been eager to remind every audience he meets, big or small, that he actually won, has always set American tongues wagging. Was there something sinister about his winning? Did he do something that could only be revealed by &ldquo;Adabra Kadabra&rdquo;, the mythical Haitian magician?It was the liberal left that first sent some warning signals, saying Trump was too cozy with the Russians he had to be up to no good. Nay; the team around Hillary Clinton were of this view too, and it gained currency making it worth being investigated by the FBI, whose Director, James Comey, is now in the eye of the storm having been summarily fired by Trump for perhaps &ldquo;going too far&rdquo; in investigating his connection and his people with the Russians.The reasons why I put &ldquo;going too far&rdquo; in quotes is because, reading between the lines of several news analysts here in the USA, there is a deep feeling and suspicion that Comey must have smelt several rats in this misadventure by Trump and his people. Let us skin these rats one by one.First, like Sherlock Holmes, we need to ask: Was Trump doing some monkey business with the Russians involving some moneys earned without being declared, or on which no tax was paid? If so, what was this business all about? Oil? Drugs? Currency speculation? Or manoeuvring stock markets across the world? Was it trading in arms with Third World dictators and warlords in the Middle East? What was it? Just something to think about regarding Comey &ldquo;going too far&rdquo;.Second, this cybercrime business. How far was it extended from the business world into manipulating American Presidential elections? If Trump was innocent, why fire Comey when he was investigating something which could obviously undermine the principle of free and fair elections in American democracy? Or is it possible that Trump does not believe this is a sacred principle in upholding the US Constitution?Third, and this is a question as puzzling as it is strange. Why should an American President feel compelled, in his own office, to voluntarily offer a Russian Foreign Minister confidential security information given to him by a trusted ally? The only possible reason is that Trump felt an obligation to return a favour to a trusted friend (in Kiswahili we call it &ldquo;kurudisha mkono&rdquo;) so that he could keep &ldquo;in the inner lane&rdquo; of this friendship. Anybody such as Comey, who would dare investigate such things, would obviously &ldquo;be going too far&rdquo;; they are worth the sack.Congress, of course, now has enough ammunition in its hands to begin impeachment procedures against Trump. Senator John McCain, the veteran Republican from Arizona, recently fired the first salvo by describing Trump&rsquo;s predicament as being of &ldquo;Watergate proportion.&rdquo; Richard Nixon&rsquo;s impeachment process started with some obscure leaks that his team had wiretapped and broken into the Democratic Party headquarters in search of information in the 1972 elections. Nixon and his people strongly denied the allegations. When it became increasingly difficult to wish away the stories, the concern shifted to whether Nixon was aware of what was going on. The President categorically denied until his own records of conversations in his office proved him wrong. That was almost two years later. Nixon had to resign rather than face the ignominy of impeachment.This scenario is likely to be repeated in the case of Trump. But the Democrats, though a minority in Congress needing the Republicans to take the lead, are likely to be reluctant to impeach him. Why? Because Vice President Mike Pence is a worse conservative, and a more shrewd one, than Trump. With Pence as President, a lot of liberal legislation will obviously be rolled back by a Congress controlled by Republicans. It is in the interest of the Democrats that Trump is maintained as a lame duck President, fighting political wars on all fronts, until the mid-term elections two years from today. In the meantime, impeachment should surface then, but be defeated, leaving the Republicans with egg on their faces. An even lamer duck President will take the Republicans to the elections four years from today. The Democrats should be able to take both the White House and Congress. All this can be done without consulting Adabra Kadabra.The Republicans, on the other hand, are in a fix. If, as the majority, they don&rsquo;t take the initiative to impeach Trump, they will obviously increasingly lose the trust of the public. Mind you, groups are already forming, in red and blue states alike, baying for Trump&rsquo;s blood. Their voices are likely to be heard much wider if Trump does not succeed to implement his major campaign promises. Chief among these are the following.First, doing away with Obamacare and replacing it with something &ldquo;better and less socialist.&rdquo; The urgency with which this was supposed to be done is already being undermined by the lack of clarity regarding &ldquo;what was to be done&rdquo;, the Leninist problematic. If the saying &ldquo;politicians are those who speak with their mouths open and their minds closed&rdquo; were to be tested in a suitable political laboratory, Trump and his White House would obviously be suitable candidates. Trump&rsquo;s alternative may not see daylight, and few in Congress are likely to continue engaging the White House on this. They will simply be content with waiting for Gordot.Second, building the &ldquo;Great Wall of Mexico&rdquo; with the Mexicans paying the bill even Trump now knows is not possible. Such earth shaking pronouncements are good on the campaign trail but cannot really be the subject matter in foreign diplomacy not backed by gunboats. Trump must turn to Congress for this. And someone will have to be taxed to pay for it. Who will that be? Not many Congressmen are enthusiastic, especially when they have yet another item on their legislative menu: Reforming the tax system the Trump way.And finally, what is going to be Trump&rsquo;s new international trade order where the US calls the shots and defends her national interests ferociously. Jobs must not be taken abroad, says Trump. Invest here and give Americans jobs here. But Trump forgets that the organic composition of capital has changed tremendously over the last 50 years. Technology damn it. Google can invest in San Francisco but its operations are international, employing people everywhere and not necessarily in the USA. In other words, trade and investment in this age of technology, especially in advanced capitalist economies such as the US, is not something that can easily be reduced to jingoistic nationalism. Yes: We need to talk about fair trade practices, better conditions for the working class nationally and globally. But behaving like Trump may just engender present day Luddites, an ugly prospect to think about.