NASA presidential flagbearer Raila Odinga must do a delicate balancing act as he makes a fourth stab at the presidency. Take, for instance, the East African Legislative Assembly job that is up for grabs. His close allies are battling for the three slots even after his brother pulled out of the race. Who will the former Prime Minister endorse out of the 30 applicants? The list has his aides, think-tank strategists and close allies. He also has to balance his political interests. Some politicians from Western Kenya were heard to say they will not allow their slot, currently held by Nancy Abisae, to go to anyone else.===WHO is behind the governors' woes in the Senate? One Jubilee senator from Mount Kenya and another Corded one who are members of the Public Accounts Committee were spotted in an upmarket hotel in Runda meeting a highly Corded governor who is set to face the committee this week over misappropriation of public funds in his county. What could they possibly be discussing?===TWO politicians from one of the Northeastern counties have agreed with an aspiring governor to pump Sh500 million every year from the county coffers into a new oil refinery plant - in Ethiopia. Should the gubernatorial hopeful win the election in August, the two politicians will also run the county's abattoir through a public-private partnership upon its completion. Another retiring legislator has also been promised that a Sh400 million loan he used to purchase a building in the county will also be cleared in record time - through inflated projects to be awarded to him.===A senior official at County Hall was complaining to his seniors that most buildings that owe Nairobi County millions in arrears are owned by politicians. The officer said the management of the buildings have failed to pay land rates owed to the County for years because of the influence they have in government. The officer added they are at times harassed for going after the houses owned by the politicians. Yesterday, Nairobi county secretary Robert Ayisi said, "The efforts to seek the management to clear arrears are unfruitful. It is a pity that we have to take this step [the clamp] because we have written to them and they have not responded".==CORRIDORS yesterday told you that some NYS staff offering security in Parliament are complaining of intimidation and sexual harassment. However, Parliament says they do not condone such abuses. Head of Security and Safety Solomon Obange clarified that Parliament has laid-down procedures for complaint resolution. He said sexual harassment is taken very seriously by Parliament and staff with complaints are encouraged to report such cases for investigation. Obange said if some staff don&rsquo;t report and instead choose to use other means, then obviously there is something they are hiding and there is nothing credible about that. "Parliament is on record for recognising and appreciating hardworking NYS staff. The good work of NYS staff is appreciated and renewal of their contract is not in question," he said.