What is happening is that the IEBC has threatened, through multi-agency organs of government, to bar any aspirant who is alleged to have integrity issues.These integrity issues are within the ambit of the police, the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, Kenya Revenue Authority, Higher Education Loans Board, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and any other Kenyan organ that deals with the issues of Chapter Six of the Constitution.The true position of the law is that nobody can be barred from contesting a political position in this country until all avenues of appeal have been exhausted. In Kenya, the avenues of appeal are fourfold: In the magistrates&rsquo; courts; the High Court; the Court of Appeal; and finally the Supreme Court. So no organ of government other than the Judiciary can declare anybody to have been convicted or guilty. Anybody in police records is a suspect being investigated, anybody on the EACC radar is only being investigated. Therefore under the Kenyan Constitution, everybody is presumed innocent until proven guilty. This is the position that was reinforced in High Court Case Number 552 of 2012, where a civil society organisation went to court to sue Uhuru Kenyatta, William Ruto (now President and Deputy President) and Member of Parliament for West Mugirango James Gesami had a case pending at the Anti Corruption Court. Kenyatta and Ruto had crimes-against-humanity cases at the International Criminal Court at The Hague. But they were eligible to run for public office at the 2013 General Election. A five-judge Bench of the High Court made a judgment that the two be allowed to contest, because they were only mere suspects. There had been no conviction and all the avenues of appeal had not been concluded.Therefore the organs of government out to bar anybody are likely to be adjudged as taking actions not founded in law, are speculative and they stand to be declared null and void in court. The only people the IEBC has powers to bar are those who do not possess the requisite academic qualifications.And what will happen if the IEBC bars somebody because he or she has no academic certificates? That person will rush to court and the court will not have decided that the papers presented are fakes on time for August 8. Therefore, in a nutshell, all the people that aspire to contest will be allowed to.Omari is a lawyer and political analyst