Bwana Chief Justice, your recent impromptu visit to the law courts registries on a fact-finding mission was laudable, but the general public perceived it as another exercise in futility.Elsewhere in the same precincts, a ruling on a poll petition at the Political Parties Disputes Tribunal could not be delivered because the file had gone missing. Missing, misdirected or misplaced files together with endless adjournments of cases by judicial officers are not new, and can safely be blamed on the case file stockpiles and delays in the Judiciary.Bwana CJ, Kenya is one society where prayers hardly heal its many wounds, one being corruption in high places and perpetration of injustices. While you will be trying to clean up the rot in the bench, you should know that corruption is glorified and honesty demonised.It is the height of irony that one of the best judicial officers was shown the door by the Judges and Magistrates Vetting Board.I am a party in a civil case that has been adjourned for seven years before seven different judges and it is far from being concluded. Litigants have spent fortunes out of their meagre resources to pursue token compensation paid by the government. The delay in the hands of judges does not prick the conscience of the bench leadership.The case in point is about a legal fee for the advocate representing eight Nyayo House torture survivors. The court decided on a fee to be deducted from money paid and accrued interest paid out to litigants. The advocate, a Senior Counsel, pocketed his entitlement and held on to the interest on the grounds that the fee was lower than what the Kenya Human Rights Commission brokered. The court entertained this argument and the case opened and continues.The KHRC is a latter-day witness that has avoided court appearance for two years and is likely not to appear on the next hearing for the same advocate. The presiding judge, I bet, will once again adjourn the case possibly to 2018, given the political situation in the country. The nearest date could be next year because judges will be hearing election petitions from poll losers.Some of the litigants are ailing men in their sunset years. They are broke after spending money on accommodation and travel to Nairobi in the hope of getting justice, only to be told of postponements, the court being on recess, judges indisposed, the file misplaced and advocate travelled to a funeral, etc.The logical thing to do to restore the confidence of litigants, and save time and money, is to conclude the case by ordering the lawyer to meet the costs to litigants as previously ordered and pay interest on the duration he has kept the money failing which the litigants should be given order to auction the advocate to recover their dues. The ruling should be done at once, appeal heard and the file closed on the matter.Failure to conclude the case in question, which commenced in 2011, I personally would want to conclude that the Judiciary is an accomplice in the torture of torture victims.A court is a place of last resort, but not when decades and money are spent to obtain justice that never was. Judicial officers should at least wear a human face and be sensitive to the plight of tormented men and women whose blood, sweat and incarceration gave birth to reforms Kenyans enjoy today.The Law Society of Kenya, the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs and even the State Law Office are of little help to the victims of bench tyranny.These institutions hardly question when lawyers of disrepute are appointed judges and honest officers dismissed. Fingers are never raised when lawyers of questionable integrity are named to the Judges and Magistrates Vetting Board.Mr CJ, keep up the good work but remember that ills in the Judiciary will not be cured any time soon. Your successor, Dr Willy Mutunga, tried his best, created the post of an Ombudsman to handle some of the tricky matters &mdash; and the man threw in the towel. He didn&rsquo;t want to stay a minute longer when the time was up. Justice Aaron Ringera&rsquo;s famous radical surgery failed the test.Let&rsquo;s pray that one day there will be a divine intervention and our problems buried in the dustbin of history. The author is a freelance Journalist and Nyayo House torture victim. [email&#160;protected]