Jonathan Somen, an IT entrepreneur and affable star of Kenya&rsquo;s classic rallying scene, is keen to make up for their loss in the 2015 East African Safari Classic Rally.However, an insatiable craving for the action-packed event has bitten hard and the Classic Car Cup champion of 2014 has decided to come back for more.&ldquo;The 2015 Safari Classic Rally ended in disappointment for us,&rdquo; Somen recalls.&ldquo;Having just climbed into the top 10 and cruising on tarmac out of Arusha, we had a distributor failure while miles away from our service crew. Changing that part got us back on the road, only to suffer a repeat failure of the replacement on the final day of the rally. We&rsquo;re treating this year&rsquo;s Safari Classic as unfinished business.&rdquo;Currently leading the 2017 KNRC Classic standings after two rounds, Somen has participated in three editions of the Safari Classic since his 2011 debut. Driven by a hunger for rally competition, and with the mechanical gremlins of 2015 hopefully consigned to history, the Access Kenya founder is aiming for a top 10 finish this year.Preparation and testing of a classic Ford Escort Mk 2 for this year&rsquo;s Safari Classic Rally are going on well. Together with long-standing co-driver Richard Hechle, the Escort&rsquo;s first test of 2017 was through Nairobi and the Great Rift Valley on the ARC Safari Rally. It eventually claimed second position in the classic category.Somen is set to run the Mk2 in the next two rounds of the 2017 Kenyan National Rally Championship in May and June. The Escort will then be stripped and rebuilt ahead of the 2017 Safari Classic, which runs through Kenya and Tanzania from November 23 to December 1, 2017. This is his fourth entry in this epic event.The driver&rsquo;s first encounter with rally cars was watching the Safari when it formed part of the FIA World Rally Championship. &ldquo;My father was a senior Safari official for about two decades. Starting as a steward for a couple of years, he was later made an official FIA observer. He was also a rally driver in the 1960s and that&rsquo;s where my introduction to rally competition came from. I went on to serve as a Safari Rally scrutineer in my late teens.&rdquo;The inevitable competitive debut came in 2011. &ldquo;Our first event was the local KNRC Safari Rally in Athi River and Kajaido, where we chalked up a class win on our first outing. After Safari in 2011, we did one other event and made our EA Safari Classic debut the same year. We do bits of the local season to gauge our preparedness. We finish usually in the top ten &ndash; we were tenth last year&mdash; and our best finish is fifth overall.&rdquo;