The Central Bank of Kenya has not restricted shortlisted investors on the volume of majority stake they should bid for in the troubled Chase Bank, a source at the regulator said yesterday. The CBK will, however, assess each bid on its own merit in &ldquo;preserving and developing a sound and innovative banking system&rdquo;. Twelve institutions have shown interest in the medium-sized lender following the March 30 Expression of Interest call which closed on April 21. The regulator said three Kenyan and four international banks are among those which have shown interest in owning a stake in Chase Bank. Five other submissions were received from financial institutions (not in banking business) and consortia, the CBK said in a press release on Tuesday night. The CBK said it assessed and shortlisted some of the 12 institutions interested in owning a stake in Chase, but did not disclose the exact number of those whose bids were successful in the first stage. &ldquo;The shortlisted investors were determined using appropriate and objective criteria based on, inter alia, regulatory imperatives and prudential guidelines which will ensure a speedy and optimal recovery for depositors, creditors and other stakeholders of CBL,&rdquo; CBK Governor Patrick Njoroge said in the statement. &ldquo;Shortlisted investors and other respondents have been informed of the outcome of this process.&rdquo; The successful bidders have been given access to &ldquo;comprehensive confidential data&rdquo; to help them develop a proposal for buying a stake in the lender. They have up to June 9 to submit the proposals. Nairobi-based financial analyst Aly-Khan Satchu said although there was no evidence, it was likely the CBK was entertaining the &ldquo;good bank-bad bank&rdquo; scenario, with the good bank set to be sold to the incoming investor. &ldquo;I was stupefied by the brand loyalty shown by the customers in what was typically a moment that customers tend to see red,&rdquo; Satchu said via an email. &ldquo;Therefore, there is an embedded franchise value [some has been eroded] and it&rsquo;s probably an attractive fit for someone looking to target the SME space. The &lsquo;fly in the ointment&rsquo; of any SME-based strategy is the interest rate law.&rdquo; Chase Bank was put under one-year receivership on April 7, 2016 but re-opened on April 27. This was under the management of KCB Group &ndash; the largest lender by market share &ndash; which had struck a deal with the receiver manager, Kenya Deposit Insurance Corporation, on April 20.The receivership was on April 4, this year, extended by six months. KCB Group chief executive Joshua Oigara last August ruled out any bid for Chase Bank, saying this will raise conflict of interest questions.Information on the firms shortlisted by the CBK remained scanty.Last month the Rand Merchant Bank of South Africa and Morocco&rsquo;s leading lender, Attijariwafa Bank, were rumoured to be among the international lenders in the race for an equity stake in Chase. A high-ranking politician in Jubilee administration was also also said to be interested in Chase through a consortium. There has never been official comment on the suitors. The massive run on the Chase Bank&rsquo;s deposits, leading to its collapse, was fuelled by a social media campaign after external auditors, Deloitte East Africa, issued a qualified opinion on the bank&rsquo;s books for financial year ended December 2015 &ndash; meaning the management gave scanty details and did not adhere to financial reporting standards. The bank&rsquo;s problems were largely related to Sh16.6 billion &ldquo;problematic&rdquo; insider loans whose chances of recovery were doubtful at the time.