Jubilee&rsquo;s Mombasa governor hopeful Suleiman Shahbal has dismissed reports that he favoured some aspirants during the party primaries. Shahbal was the coordinator of the JP nominations in Mombasa held on April 26.He is said to have asked Abdisalam Kassim, who had been declared the winner in the senator race, to step down in favour of Deputy Governor Hazel Katana because of his &ldquo;religion and tribe&rdquo;.Shahbal has, however, denied the claims, saying he acted on instructions from party headquarters.&ldquo;I watched my close friends lose in the Jubilee Party primaries in Mombasa and I could do nothing about it. And I will do nothing about it,&rdquo; Shahbal said.Abdisalam claims Jubilee had promised him a parastatal job if he stepped down, an offer he rejected. There were also claims of favouritism in the Nyali parliamentary race after the winner, Ashraf Bayusuf, was denied the ticket, which was given to Yassin Noor, who came in third place.Kassim said Shahbal was trying to influence the process and manipulate the results. &ldquo;I got over 10,000 votes, and beat Katana who had around 9,000 votes. There was a difference of 891 votes. There has been no appeal. I haven&rsquo;t been called to shed light on the matter. So I wonder why they want to use their power to ensure I am denied the ticket,&rdquo; Kassim told the Star. The politician said Jubilee wanted non-Arabs to be given priority.Shahbal said: &ldquo;I was not involved in the running of the elections in all ways. All aspirants were mine, but I had no preferred candidates at all.&rdquo; He said there was an assumption he would support Kassim, because he is an Arab and a Muslim.&ldquo;I cannot support or favour Kassim because he is an Arab and a Muslim like me, that is not how it goes. It is nonsense,&rdquo; he said.Shahbal said when Kassim confronted him at Bomas during the Jubilee meeting last weekend, he informed him the dispute resolution board had decided that Katana be given the ticket.&ldquo;And I gave him other options he could pursue. Either ask what&rsquo;s in it for him, or he could challenge. But I advised him that it was in his interest to think and weigh the options, and not become emotional. If he has an issue he should sort it out with the election board. I don&rsquo;t give out the ticket. My signature won&rsquo;t be on the ticket. There is a very clear process to pursue,&rdquo; Shahbal said.He said he was away when the election board was formed. &ldquo;There was a dispute resolution committee consisting of very respectable members, who would not even allow me to play any games; people like Bishop Joseph Maisha...If someone loses, why should they turn around and blame Shahbal?&rdquo; he said. Shahbal said he received information from JP headquarters that Katana won. &ldquo;Who am I to say no? Either way, I am a loser. If I support one candidate over another I will lose. I am completely neutral. Some of my close, personal friends lost in the election, people I knew since 2010, but I will do nothing about it. People I have been walking around with and socialising with. But when campaigns started, I was accused of hanging around them and giving an impression of favouring them. So I told them this is politics and I have to be completely neutral,&rdquo; he said.In the Nyali MP nominations, Shahbal said the dispute resolution board decided to hand the JP ticket to Noor.The Jubilee Coast team, led by Shahbal, Malindi MP Gideon Mung&rsquo;aro, Katana, and other politicians, was at State House last week to meet President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto.&ldquo;Bayusuf was not invited for the State House meeting hosted by the President and his deputy because he was not on the list,&rdquo; Shahbal said.