A burial in Olbutyo village, Chepalungu constituency, Bomet, ended prematurely on Saturday.Supporters of Governor Isaac Rutto and National Assembly Deputy Speaker Joyce Laboso clashed.Trouble started when Rutto arrived at the venue in the company of some of his supporters clad in Chama Cha Mashinani caps.They were shouting &lsquo;Mashinani&rsquo; and started attacking a man believed to be a Jubilee supporter for shouting the Jubilee slogan &lsquo;Tuko Pamoja&rsquo;.The man sustained serious head injuries.As the chaos erupted at the burial, relatives surrounded the coffin and whisked it a kilometre away.When Rutto arrived, Laboso had just addressed the mourners.She thanked the family and residents for voting her in to clinch the Jubilee Party ticket to run for Bomet governor.Laboso accused Rutto of ferrying youths to functions to cause chaos.She said it is wrong for the governor to attend the burial in the company of supporters, while wearing CCM party outfits.&ldquo;Burials should not be used to display one&rsquo;s political supremacy. They are meant to console the bereaved. We wonder what the governor has in mind when he comes to a funeral with his supporters. This is not the first time he is doing this,&rdquo; Laboso said.As the mourners and family escorted the body to the graveside, friends escorted Rutto. He used the little opportunity to address a handful of his supporters as most of those who attended had left shouting &lsquo;Jubilee&rsquo;.The governor condemned the chaos that erupted at the burial, saying it was the work of Jubilee supporters.He said he is confident NASA will win the August election because Jubilee has failed to address the high cost of living. Police officers had to intervene and ordered Rutto to call off the meeting as they escorted Laboso out of the venue. The Bomet Governor race would be a close call between Rutto and Laboso, a survey found in April.Rutto would win with 38.9 per cent support while Laboso, would follow at 37.7 per cent. Laboso has just 1.2 percentage points to catch up with Rutto.In the findings of the Infotrak poll, Laboso was followed by Julius Kones who would get 7.3 per cent of the votes. Some 16.1 per cent of the population said they were undecided.Rutto broke ranks with Jubilee and formed Chama Cha Mashinani, on whose ticket he will run.In October last year, he met elected MPs and MCAs, seeking their support in his reelection bid.Laboso was endorsed by her clan to run for the county chief post. She was blessed and given powers of a community leader in a Kalenjin traditional ceremony. The survey found that CCM {12 per cent} came second to Jubilee {73.8 per cent} in terms of popularity in the county. The National Super Alliance came third at 6.6 per cent.