With little exaggeration, let me set the record straight on behalf of Jubilee.As Jubilee would say, opposition NASA was rudderless until we &lsquo;manufactured&rsquo; Candidate Raila Odinga for them, cloned from the hi-tech enterprise development industrial park at Konza City. However, NASA is forever bereft of any courtesy and gratitude not only in rejecting Konza City is a reality even after we have demonstrated so to their benefit, the cantankerous fellows have the audacity to reject our agenda for the clone.They have done the unimaginable &mdash; given him a script only those savages at Independence could&rsquo;ve used in demonising the colonial regime.NASA doesn&rsquo;t see that the Jubilee administration has done what all governments in Kenya couldn&rsquo;t do &mdash; make corruption a governance policy. Instead, they&rsquo;ve repeatedly lamented about those who have looted, forgetting that it is the policy to loot that creates wealth and employment for our joyful youth population.Jubilee is famously in a foul mood when NASA calls itself the opposition. The world over, the loyal opposition, which NASA has refused to be, doesn&rsquo;t just criticise but offers solutions to problems those in power create.If indeed the cost of living is unbearable, as NASA incites the people to claim, how come Kenyans are still living well, going to work and school, eating and flushing toilets? Where in Kenya does opposition NASA live to claim that while world prices for essential commodities are tumbling down in Kenya, they are skyrocketing to unaffordable levels?Where in the world, except in the infantile mind of NASA, can you expect people to suffer in silence and not riot, when food prices continue to soar? A 1kg packet of sugar now retails at Sh185 from Sh140, a 2kg packet of unga now sells at between Sh150-Sh180 from Sh110. Milk is retailing at an average of Sh130 per litre, up from Sh90 recently. One kg of tomatoes and potatoes cost Sh140 each while a sukuma bunch is Sh30. It is not happening in Kenya that fuel and fare prices have doubled while a six-litre gas cylinder now refills at Sh1, 000 up from Sh800.It&rsquo;s opposition porojo that the Jubilee 2017-18 Budget was billed a safety net against spiralling prices of essential commodities. In panic mode,the President gave an 18 per cent increase in minimum wage to mitigate the high costs of food, and allowed importers to bring in cheap maize, but to no avail. Imagine NASA anticipating that the President contemplates a supplementary budget hardly a month into the budget cycle to subsidise food. All the President wants is to correct a typing error in the budget.NASA, as its acronym suggests, explores other planets other than the one where Kenya under Jubilee is found. Blinded in that alienouter space, NASA paints images of a punitive Sh3 trillion national debt, Eurobond borrowing and NYS looting that never happened. Indeed, there was never a Cabinet Secretary by the name Anne Waiguru.In the Jubilee diary, there wasn&rsquo;t an inflated cost of the SGR, which snakes through villages full of healthy throngs of singing million villagers on asphalt roads courtesy of the controversial Last Mile project that Kenyans pay through the nose in electricity bills for, unused hired diagnostic machines that cost Sh10 billion a year and a 10,000 roads remake that only NASA is unable to see.The opposition is forever making a mockery of Jubilee&rsquo;s resolve to initiate, implement and commission roads, provide electricity to millions and laptops to schoolchildren now in their fourth year of waiting, and water dams to pastoralists whose livestock has since died, create a million jobs a year in an economy famed for retrenchments and spiralling poverty, and, for good measure, security assurances security given heavy purchases of truncheons and teargas, all in the remaining three months of its term.It is untoward not to believe in miracles, especially the kind Deputy President William Ruto claimed brought Jubilee into power. But there is a science called logic, which only Jubilee can contradict. Who said kusema na kutenga wasn&rsquo;t development?