Olympic silver medalist Helen Obiri and little-known Peter Mundia were crowned the respective Kenya Defence Forces 5,000m and 1000m champions at the Nyayo Stadium yesterday.Obiri clocked a sluggish time of 15:43.2 to affirm her status as one of the athletes to watch out for at the national trials set for next month at the same venue .Veronica Wanjiru came home second in 15:51.6 with world half marathon record holder Joyciline Jepkosegei taking the last medal slot in 15:54.9.The race stated in the cold morning conditions which improved slowly as the race progressed. Jepkosgei controlled the proceedings in the opening five laps closely followed by Gladys Kiamaina, Sheila Chepkirui with Obiri tucked last in a five-athlete single file lead pack.Halfway through the race, Wanjiru surged to the front with Jepkosgei tiring and Obiri slotting into third place with Irene Kwambai moving up to fourth as the pace increased with Kiamaina being dropped off, entirely.Obiri was to make a her move in the ninth lap closely followed by Jepkosgei and Wanjiru with Kwambai struggling to keep tabs with the trio in the closing laps stages.Obiri increased her lead over Wanjiru by the start of the 10th lap and never looked back as she strode home to victory. Obiri was delighted to win, though she insisted she is saving herself for the national championships-cum-trials to the London World Championships in August.&ldquo;I paced myself well in the opening laps to ensure I was not to far behind and was able to pull away in the final three laps and eventually win the race. This will improve my confidence,&rdquo; said Obiri. &ldquo;I am in top condition. I will run a few Diamond League races and come August, the goal will be to win gold for the country in London.&rdquo; Embakasi&rsquo;s Mundia upset the form book to win a highly competitive 10,000m race. Mundia clocked 29:20.7 with veteran Leonard Oloitiptip coming home distant second in 29:38.5 with another seasoned runner, Kiplimo Kimutai the bronze winner in 29:38.4 as Geoffrey Kirui missing out in fourth after returning 30:06.4.Moses Arita led in the opening stint of the race controlling the pace from the front alongside Victor Kiplimo, Vincent Kiprop and Fredrick Muraya.Arita could not shake off the pack in the opening 10 laps with none daring to make a move. In the 12th lap Oloitiptip surged to the front and increased the pace but was soon chased down by Muindi and Kimutai who kept tabs with him until the 18th lap. A tiring Oloititip was soon overtaken in the 20th lap by Muindi who controlled the race until the end. Muindi said he will go back and train hard for the national trials.&ldquo;The trials will not be easy since the best athletes from all other regions will be there and therefore I will have to at my best to qualify for the world championships,&rdquo; said Muindi.