Late last month, I had an opportunity to meet Israel&rsquo;s Ministry of Foreign Affairs Spokesman Emanuel Nachshon, Ambassador Yahel Vilan and Deputy Ambassador Michael Baror. We discussed ranging issues, among them the food situation in the country. For starters, agriculture in Israel is a highly developed industry. It is a major exporter of fresh produce and a world-leader in agricultural technologies despite the fact that the geography of Israel is not naturally conducive for farming. We discussed various ways in which Israel is partnering Kenya in this field, and among the noticeable projects is the Galana Kulalu irrigation project. This is among many other partnerships Kenya has with other developed countries in the North-South Cooperation arrangement. Some have been successful, others haven&rsquo;t. And this leads me to South-South cooperation.South&ndash;South Cooperation is a term used by policymakers and academics to describe the relations and exchange of resources, technology, and knowledge between developing countries, also known as countries of the global South.In this context, there is need to cooperate to assist communities in Africa and Asia Pacific to adapt to climate change. This is by improving research projects, capacity enhancement, financing and legislation to support Ecosystem Based Approaches. The S-S Cooperation is important in catalysing global and regional collaboration on Ecosystem-based Adaptation, especially in seeking to build climate resilience by enhancing institutional capacity, mobilising knowledge and transferring appropriate adaptation technologies, which is very imperative. S-S cooperation is thus by fact a cross cutting issue and an important pillar in addressing EBA Approaches in agriculture.While S-S cooperation is relatively a new concept, EBAs are not. Therefore, there is also need to put into use experience gained over time in EBAs, to reinforce S-S relations in addressing climate change. This is more so in capacity building in scientific research, technology transfer and information sharing. Furthermore, progressive monitoring and evaluation is key in ensuring that it remains on course.Of concern to note is that countries involved in S-S cooperation are not at the same level in terms of economies, governance and political maturity and this affects research financing and implementation of policy frameworks. Leadership and governance is critical in any particular project. However, in a large number of developing countries, especially in Africa, this is wanting. If embraced, it will go a long way in promoting S-S cooperation. The Israeli envoy mentioned that we don&rsquo;t have water shortage, our problem is water management, tone of the areas governments have failed to provide leadership in finding solutions.Kibii's comments on current and international affairs