The number of new vehicles sold in the country dropped by 16.96 per cent month-on-month in April, industry data shows. The Kenya Motor Industry Association shows vehicles sold last month declined to 955 units from 1150 units in March. Market leader General Motors East Africa ( which will imminently rebrand to Isuzu Motors) closed April sales at 384 units, a marginal drop of 1.29 per cent from 389 units sold in March. The American giant General Motors is in the final stages of its exit from the East African market having sold its entire 57.7 per cent stake in General Motors East Africa to Japan&rsquo;s Isuzu Motors. Isuzu Motors cited the contraction of credit especially to the SME sector who comprise most of the company&rsquo;s business. During the month, Toyota sales dipped by 35.95 per cent to 155 units in April down from 242 units in March. Mitsubishi sales decreased by 5.71 per cent to post 132 units sold in April, a decline from 140 units sold in March. Total exports in April declined drastically by 80 per cent to seven units sold from 35 units sold in the previous month. The market has continued to suffer from the interest rate cap which has squeezed credit access in the private sector, as banks opt to invest in government securities. &ldquo;Banks have gone slow on lending due to the interest rate cap, this has not just affected us but the whole sector,&rdquo; Isuzu Motors East Africa communications manager Dancan Muhindi said. He said the firm expected a slowdown in the coming months due to August 8 polls citing that clients were deferring purchases to the fourth quarter of 2017 or the beginning of 2018. &ldquo;Most of our customers are adopting a wait and see attitude, choosing to make their purchases once the elections are over,&rdquo; Muhindi said. Most buyers of new vehicles, such as light commercial trucks, rely on asset financing facilities by banks, however the capping of interest rates in August last year has led to reduced loans to the private sector. A number of global car makers have shown interest in setting up shop in Kenya with the most recent being France&rsquo;s PSA Group, the maker of Peugeot. German&rsquo;s Volkswagen began assembling cars in Thika last year while India&rsquo;s Ashok Leyland is also planning to set up an assembly plant. The government has scrapped excise duty on locally assembled cars and motorcycles in a bid to spur local assembling and manufacturing.