Deuteronomy 26:5 has always been quoted as the text that very accurately provides a rationale for the tremendous attachment the Israelis have to the existence and survival of the state of Israel. It says, &ldquo;Then you shall declare before the Lord God, &ldquo;My father was a wandering Aramean, and he went down into Egypt with a few people and lived there and became a great nation, powerful and numerous.&rdquo; That is the rendition according to the New International Edition of the Holy Bible.The New Living Translation says something more akin to what I first learnt in Sunday school, continued to study in religion classes at the Alliance High School, and finally, sat my A Levels with religion as one of my four principal subjects. It reads, &ldquo;You must then say in the presence of the Lord your God: &ldquo;My ancestor Jacob was a wandering Aramean who went to live as a foreigner (some versions say &lsquo;slave&rsquo; sold to the Egyptians by his brothers) in Egypt. His family arrived few in number (no doubt as a result of a ravaging famine back home), but in Egypt they became a large and mighty nation.&rdquo;The subsequent verses of Deuteronomy narrate how the Egyptians turned this great nation into a captive nation: &ldquo;They abused and battered us, in a cruel and savage slavery&rdquo;. In other words, the first generation of Arameans were not slaves: They were a free and prosperous people. That is perhaps why Pharaoh made Joseph his minister for Agriculture during that great famine period in the Middle East. But the subsequent growth and prosperity of this immigrant nation made their hosts jealous to turn against them with hatred; a kind of xenophobia. Says the Bible, &ldquo;We cried out to God, the God-of-our-fathers; He listened to our voice, he saw our destitution, our trouble, our cruel plight. And God took us out of Egypt, with his strong hand and long arm, terrible and great, with signs and miracle- wonders. And he brought us to this place, gave us this land flowing with milk and honey.&rdquo;This place, to modern Israelis, is the state of Israel as it was founded in 1948, defended by Harry Truman and recognised by the United Nations as the Arab nations surrounding it protested and as the fate of the Palestinians remained tenuous within the state of Israel founded as a Jewish nation. That controversy remains to this very day, punctuating the conflicts in this region and making Israel remain in a permanent state of actual or potential war with her neighbors. But, looking back into history, mythical or real, it is very unlikely that the residents of Israel, Jewish or Arab, are just about to accept becoming wandering Arameans any time soon. The paradox of the two states, Jewish and Palestinian, will have to be resolved; coexistence must continue to be a work in progress and war needs to be progressively weaned out of the vocabulary of the two nations. Why do I say so? To answer this question we must first of all find out who this &ldquo;wandering Aramean was.&rdquo;Wikipedia says Aramean means &ldquo;Israel&rdquo;, not Arab nor Jewish, just Israel. It further goes on to state that &ldquo;Arameans in Israel are persons residing in that country, who identify as Arameans, a Northwest Semitic people who originated in what is now present-day Western, Southern and Central Syria region (Biblical Aram) during the late Bronze Age and Iron Age.&rdquo;Granted that people migrate, intermarry and some identities even disappear, we have to accept that the present offspring of the original Arameans could as well be both Jewish and Arab, or a mixture of both. The present reality is that after the horrible history of anti-Semitism that went on for centuries (you can even find it in Shakespearean plays), the current offspring of the wandering Aramean of many centuries ago finally claimed &ldquo;a place to feel at home&rdquo; in the state of Israel when they ran away from torture, genocide and possible extinction from so-called &ldquo;western civilisation&rdquo;. However controversial the founding of the state of Israel was, and irrespective of how controversial it has remained to this very day, the fact is that it is now a fait acompli.What needs to be sorted out are the following. First, the issue of citizenship within Israel. To what extent are Arab residents in Israel accepted as full citizens with equal rights as their Jewish brothers and sisters? Two, the issue of coexistence as two nations &mdash; Israel and Palestine. It is increasingly becoming mere semantics and political grandstanding for either side of this political divide to deny the other the right to self-determination. But one&rsquo;s self determination must not be advanced at the expense of the interests of the other. Once this principle of coexistence is accepted, then the other practical issues such as state boundaries, occupied lands, walls and their tendency to heighten the politics of exclusion can be solved on the basis of the politics of &ldquo;give and take.&rdquo;The two nations inhabiting this small piece of the earth called Palestine and Israel are people with admirable culture, extremely rich history bounded in myths and religious puzzles, some material culture which is the envy of many and a potential for some flowering civilization which has unfortunately been postponed to an indeterminate future. After visiting Tel Aviv, Jerusalem, Bethlehem, Jericho and Nazareth; after floating on the Dead Sea effortlessly and watching the hills across in Jordan wake up slowly in the morning; after seeing a desert being watered to produce marvelous fruits, I sat down and asked, why war?People flock here from all over the world to see the Sycamore Tree in Jericho which that short fellow climbed to have a glimpse of Jesus. It is true; the tree still stands, more firmly than one hundred mimosa trees put together more than 20 whole centuries later. What kind of soil is this? Why war?Look, as a holy city, Jerusalem is amazing. Around the Wailing Wall are shrines and holy places of three of the most powerful Abrahamic religions in the world &mdash; Judaism, Christianity and Islam. If these three can coexist, in an area less than one square kilometer in size, why can&rsquo;t we have the great Palestinian and Jewish people in one federal state of Palestino-Israel? Nations have always been created deliberately by people, and rarely evolve just by themselves. With that in mind, a newly crafted federal state bringing the two nations together will make a lot of sense. It will provide an enabling environment for swords to be turned into plowshares on both sides of the political and cultural divide; rigid identities will be softened by the politics of pragmatism a la Anwar Sadat; and jingoistic nationalism will cede hegemony to cultural internationalism of a new democratic nature.People will then confront, much more realistically, the meaning of a Jewish settlement on the West Bank maintained by a siege mentality, and virtually in isolation. Could such settlements be accommodated in an environment where the surrounding was prosperous and productive and offered better life to Arab residents now living better than the poor Bedouins, who lurk around such settlements in abject poverty. People will also confront, and resolve much more imaginatively, the cruelty that one sees in human beings living next to each other but separated by walls of concrete that simply perpetuate the problems of non-coexistence.