The majority of Kenyans are yet to recover from the impacts of the recent drought that has now caused food shortages, skyrocketing the prices of agricultural produce.Farms in the countryside didn&rsquo;t produce much. Napier grass has dried, maize gave in, tea bushes charred and many other crops succumbed to the scourge.Except for the past two weeks in which the country has experienced some rains, the drought had a devastating impact on the tea sub-sector, a leading foreign exchange earner for the country. Last year, Kenya earned Sh116.5 billion in foreign exchange from tea, according to the Economic Survey 2017.Despite such a feat, we are likely to see a fall in the quantities of tea exported this year and consequently earnings, due to the ravaging. As the smallholder and plantation tea farmers stare at reduced earnings, players must take quick actions to mitigate the impact of harsh weather conditions. It is my hope that this issue will take centre stage during the Third Africa Tea Convention and Exhibition, which will happen today and tomorrow in Nairobi. The theme is &ldquo;Sustainable Tea Farming &mdash; an inspiring future for nature, health and rewarding livelihoods&rdquo;.Locally, tea stakeholders have taken affirmative action to practice sustainable tea farming and combat the effects of climate change. For example, the Kenya Tea Development Agency Management Services (KTDA &ndash; MS) has played a leading role in the preservation of biological diversity. The agency has initiated and embraced Farmer Field Schools (FFS), a programme that teaches over 560, 000 tea growers how to practice sustainable farming.The farmers have leveraged on the FFS programme to improve tea farming practices and venture into other enterprises as a way of cushioning them against fluctuating tea prices. The net effect has been improvement in tea yields.Additionally, the agency has planted trees in riparian zones and water catchment areas to conserve the environment. Separately, the agency has planted over 13,000 acres of trees in designated areas to combat climate change and provide cheap wood fuel for boilers in the factories. When cut, the trees are replanted to provide a steady source of fuel for the factories. The programme is hoped to limit carbon emissions now and in future.To go the clean energy way, KTDA-managed tea factories have invested in small hydropower projects aimed at reducing energy costs that account for about 30 per cent of the total production cost. Two power stations &mdash; Gura and Chania &mdash; which were commissioned last year, will see five factories enjoy reliable electricity supply.Likewise, the state-owned Nyayo Tea Zones Development Coorporation has established about 5,235 hectares of forest cover in the form of assorted tree species. The tea zones have acted as &lsquo;live&rsquo; fences against human intrusion into the Aberdare and Mau forests, greatly reducing illegal logging and encroachment. These tea companies have made great strides towards combating the effects of climate change.It is my view that this convention should encourage tea companies to initiate clean energy projects to reduce carbon emissions. Players in the tea sector must also lobby states to enforce stiff penalties on those culprits perpetrating pollution and environmental destruction.Besides, the state should declare a total war on secondary constituents such as the use of plastic carrier bags that are threatening biodiversity and the ecosystem. Although there have been sensible discussions on the banning of plastic bags, it is high time the state walked the talk to avert further environmental detriment.Sadly, even as the players scratch their heads to find long-term solutions to the effects of climate change, the Kenya Forest Service and National Environment Management Authority have neglected their oversight role of ensuring the environment is protected and preserved.Today, water catchment areas and forests are being wiped clean by illegal loggers on the watch of KFS. Only last week, the Aberdare Forest on the Gura side was indiscriminately being destroyed by wood loggers. Such wanton destruction hurts the environment.As KFS snoozes on its job, gallant citizens have taken the loggers head-on. Early this year, angry residents of Kiambu county ejected illegal loggers from the indigenous Thogoto Forest. This is indeed a classic example of responsible citizenship.NEMA on its part must ensure industries do not release untreated effluents into rivers and emissions into the atmosphere as this heightens environmental degradation.To effectively battle climate change, government agencies, organisations and citizens must play their rightful role in conserving the environment. Only that way can we be able to sustain tea farming and reward livelihoods. Otherwise, we will continue to hurt the tea sub-sector and hundreds of thousands of families whose livelihoods depend on tea.The writer is Adviser in communications and public relations