The Germany rugby team arrived in the country yesterday for their Test match against Kenya on Saturday at the RFUEA ground.The team had a training session at Impala Club to shake off the jet-lag and will have another training session today and tomorrow. Ranked 24th and having upset Romanian recently, the Germans are expected to offer formidable challenge to the Kenya Simbas, who are placed 23 in the ranking.The Kenya Simbas had a 10-day training camp in Cape Town, South Africa and played against Durbell RFC, losing 26-12. They also had a training session with Super rugby franchise, the Stormers and provincial outfit Western Province. South Africa&rsquo;s Cwengile &lsquo;JD&rsquo; Jadezweni will be the referee for Saturday&rsquo;s Tatu City Series test between the two sides. He will be assisted by Constant Cap and Andrew Karani.This will be the second time the South African whistler is taking charge of the match having officiated in last year&rsquo;s Test match against Hong Kong in August. Zimbabwean referee Gandiwa Talent has been named to officiate the Enterprise Cup final between KCB and Kabras Sugar on Saturday. A communique from KRU said: &ldquo;Zimbabwe&rsquo;s Gandiwa Talent will be the man in charge of Saturday&rsquo;s Enterprise Cup final between defending champions KCB and Kabras Sugar.&rdquo;Talent will be assisted by Moses Ndungu and Victor Oduor in the 12pm clash at RFUEA grounds. Elsewhere, the 34th edition of Blackrock will be held on Saturday at St. Mary&rsquo;s School, Nairobi. Lenana School are the defending champion after going past Rift Valley Academy (RVA) 3-0 in a well contested final. For a place in the final, the Mean Maroon showed little love to hosts St. Mary&rsquo;s, winning the semi-final duel 14-0 with tries from Robert Mogesi and Aldrin Onditi while RVA on their part, beat a determined St. Aloysius 8-7. Eutychus Academy won the Plate after seeing off Thika High 14-07 in the final, Dagorreti High went home with the Bowl after beating Strathmore II 14-07 while Arnold Mwita of Lenana School was named the MVP.