This season must have been the most challenging for those attentive consumers of Kenyan media. Balanced and fair reportage must remain for media to retain its place in modern Kenya. However, of late the conduct of some of our media can be sought in the political life and situation of 5th Century Greece. Politics and democracy, like philosophy, were Greek inventions.Never before, in the West, had there been a society in which ordinary men, lacking either inherited authority or divine sanction, openly debated and decided on such vital matters as war and peace, public finance, crime and punishment and free movement of information.Political activity had become accepted not only as a legitimate activity, but also as the highest form of social activity. Moreover, the defeat of the great Persian Empire proved that this new way of running society was effective and valuable. It was a &ldquo;new&rdquo; way, where free men organised their lives under the rule of law and free press.Therefore, like Greece, our country desperately needs responsible journalists/press that abide by laid-down rules and regulations to avoid committing press-related misdemeanors every now and then.Kenya journalism is currently in the throes of its most severe crisis in decades. A combination of censorship, unbridled partisanship and ineptitude are steadily eroding the gains that the local media realised over the past decade. Unlike in past years, the prime threats to media freedom today are within the institution itself rather than from an overzealous government.Ironically, the moment media is challenged being unethical it squeals for its &lsquo;freedom&rsquo;. What of the freedom of the individual citizenry? In essence, the media attacks both democracy and individual freedom, which was rightly hard-fought.Kenyans paid with their blood for freedom. Most media practitioners have, over the years, earned a reputation for courage and integrity. During the struggle for Independence, scribes such as the late Harry Thuku, Ramogi Achieng&rsquo; Oneko and Pio Gama Pinto pioneered &ldquo;liberation journalism.&rdquo;They transformed the nibs of their pens into lethal arsenals for liberation. They refrained from pedantic discussions on personalities and focussed on issues. Instead of peddling rumours, they championed and pursued truth, human dignity and equality. They exposed, challenged and fought against injustices, and that&rsquo;s why they suffered repression.Of late under media freedom, gutter journalism is consistently promoted, irrespective of the rights of individuals that are continually trampled on. Similarly, the same media no longer publishes educative articles written by independent and so-called &ldquo;dissident&rdquo; scribes.It is no coincidence that media houses have decided to shun certain views and historical facts and promote their own views and increase sales only that later spur negative public debate. This is their interpretation of &ldquo;media freedom&rdquo;. And one is not sure whether to blame it on naivety, lack of journalistic philosophy or deliberate decision to be of service to the ruling elite, but media&rsquo;s coverage of the events related to the opposition or corruption is disastrous. Our media has specialised in the cardinal journalistic sin of presenting propaganda as if it is &lsquo;hot news.&rsquo;Our newspapers and/or press have dedicated acres and acres of space to non-issues, forgetting, corruption that should be tackled, as TV anchors and reporters make fools of themselves before cameras as they try to embellish clearly valueless information.It poses a serious danger as history will never be reflected truthfully, but in a distorted fashion. Indeed, drama and sensationalism, character assassination, the misrepresentation of facts, tendentious reportage and trampling on individual rights appear to be protected under the guise of &lsquo;media freedom&rsquo; in Kenya.The conduct of our media and its support structures is embarrassing. The current talk shows on our FM stations and even the music played TV are pure manifestations of decaying media.It has failed dismally to self-regulate itself through its own Media Council of Kenya. Similarly, it has allowed, if not helped, tendentious gutter journalism to flourish. Media has indeed overplayed its hand by destroying lives willy-nilly but when corrected, the Fourth Estate squeals. In established democracies such as the US or in Athens, the cradle of Western democracy correction is made to ensure spur the growth of democracy.It is a natural process and such nations have bills that ensure protection of state information that address these ills and the elected state carries the responsibility to protect its masses and treat them fairly. That raises queries if Kenya needs such measures that will assent to what goes on air or if it requires being edited more.That will serve as the &lsquo;code of fair information practices&rsquo;. The consequence of those who do not respect or uphold such a code will be punishment. The job of media is not merely to tell people what is happening. Truly one need not be a journalist to pass over facts to an audience. What distinguishes true journalism from other forms of mass communication is commitment to truthfulness.The time for peddling perceptions as facts, character assassination or power lobbying would seem to be short-lived. A &ldquo;strong&rdquo; Media Council of Kenya is chiefly unavoidable to grantee fair play and responsible reportage as the clock ticks towards the August polls.The problem, however, with our media is that its ownership is concentrated in the hands of a few barons with very serious cross-shareholdings, which perhaps has made it difficult for the MCK to succeed in its role.However, if the government is to be valued because it is accountable to the people, free and independent media is essential to that process. The culture of fanning hatred through media is barbaric, but the newspapers of late pen headlines that precipitate anxiety. That requires enterprise on the part of the editors.However, either there is a dearth of enterprising editors and journalists in the newsrooms or enterprise is not encouraged for political and commercial reasons. An enterprising editor or reporter takes the initiative on a story and goes beyond and deeper than what is obvious.Moreover, by choosing to focus on the dramatics of politics, but not graft in government, media wastes an opportunity to emphasise and teach the significance or consequences of graft on economic growth. It sells commercially, I suppose, but the question is: How do these wild assertions pass the fact checkers, the copy editors, and associate editors of our press?