It is one week since the government introduced the Sh90 subsidised maize flour, but many shops&rsquo; shelves are empty.Agriculture PS Richard Lesiyampe yesterday attributed the shortage in the market to panic buying by shoppers and assured Kenyans there is enough supply of maize flour.&ldquo;Consumers should stop panic buying and then start complaining of lack of enough maize flour in the market. I can assure there is enough to sustain the country until end of September,&rsquo;&rsquo; he said.Cereal Millers Association chairman Nick Hutchison said millers have been playing their part and milling whatever maize they get and releasing it to the market. &ldquo;The problem is that Kenyans are aggressive shoppers and are not convinced that the cheap unga will last, hence the rush-buying,&rdquo; he said yesterday on the phone.He said issues of supply chain take time and that consumers should be patient. Millers will be meeting later in the week to evaluate the progress.Hutchison added, &ldquo;The demand for the Sh90 government-subsidised maize flour is high against a suppressed supply. This is a positive move from the government so long as the supply for maize to millers is enough.&rdquo;By yesterday, small millers were yet to receive the additional 130,000 bags the government had promised.David Kimani, the Naivas Supermarket managing director, said each branch is receiving about 100-200 bales of the subsidised maize flour in a day. He said it is still not enough for the consumers. &ldquo;We have been trying to ration consumers to two packets of maize flour each, but they keep coming back for more. The demand is very high and millers are not able cope with it. The government needs to give an assurance the maize flour will be there for the next two or three months so that people can stop piling stocks in their houses,&rdquo; Kimani said.But not all major local outlets are getting the subsidised unga due to their precarious financialsituaitons.Most of the major outlets in the country have recorded huge losses from the old stocks, following the introduction of the subsidised maize flour last week.Retails outlets were unable to sell old stocks at the old prices of Sh150 by the time the Sh90 unga was introduced in the market.Kimani said the outlet had an old stock of 3,200 bales of maize flour and they lost more than Sh1.8 million from the 1kg and 2kg packets of unga. &ldquo;We also had the 5kg and 10kg packets, which we also incurred huge losses. We lost Sh50 from every packet as we had to bring the prices down from Sh140 to Sh90,&rdquo; he said.