Opposition nominees to the regional Parliament yesterday sparked a storm in the House.The opposition was accused of circumventing election rules. Majority leader Aden Duale fired the first salvo, accusing opposition chiefs Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka of attempting to &ldquo;ring-fence&rdquo; their favourites to the East African Legislative Assembly.He questioned why ODM and Wiper picked exactly four names - the number of slots available to the two parties - instead of the maximum 15 provided in law. ODM has three slots while Wiper has one.ODM wants the party National Elections Board chairperson Judy Pareno and Abubakar Zein reelected to the EALA. ODM has also picked Ronald Ngeny, while Wiper has picked Musyoka&rsquo;s son Kennedy. &ldquo;There are forces that want to circumvent the process to ring-fence certain candidates. One is the son of a party leader while the other is the chairman of a political party,&rdquo; Duale said.He continued, &ldquo;Pareno committed a lot of injustices against some members here. She exercised her powers as the ODM National Eections Board chairperson. MPs should be allowed to exercise their mandate.&rdquo; Seeking the speaker&rsquo;s ruling on whether the opposition has submitted the names in accordance with the law, Duale warned the House will not be used as a rubber stamp. He accused ODM and Wiper of seeking to deny the House its constitutional mandate to vote for Kenya&rsquo;s representatives at the regional Parliament. The elections will be held on May 23 by the two Houses.&ldquo;We want you to protect the integrity of this House. We will not entertain girlfriends and people who commit injustices to other leaders to represent Kenya anywhere,&rdquo; he said. Duale continued, &ldquo;MPs must be given a choice to elect members to the EALA. There will be no motion to endorse candidates, there will only be an election.&rdquo;But in a rejoinder, Wiper defended the nomination of Kennedy, saying he is qualified. Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana, who addressed journalists on behalf of the party in Nairobi, said due process was followed.