The Kitui governor race has put the nine county MPs in a Catch 22 situation over who to support: Senator DavidMusila or incumbent Julius Malombe.All the MPs, including outgoing woman representative Nyiva Mwendwa, held a press conference at Parliament Buildings on February 8. They declared their support for Musila after Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka was perceived to be rooting for Malombe.But Musila ditched Wiper in April to vie as an independent candidate. He said he was rigged out during the primaries. MPs John Munuve (Mwingi North) and Joe Mutambu (Mwingi Central) were elected on a Wiper ticket but rebelled in 2014 and joined Jubilee.Kitui South&rsquo;s Rachel Nyamai was elected on a Narc ticket but later also joined Jubilee. But all of them joined Wiper MPs Francis Nyenze (Kitui West), Marcus Muluvi (Kitui East), Bernard Kitungi (Mwingi West), Kitui Central&rsquo;s Makali Mulu and Mwendwa to send Malombe home. The MPs have disagreed with Malombe on the management of county resources.Mulu said they have not taken a stand on who to support after Musila quit the party. &ldquo;It is difficult, especially for me because two of the governor candidates &mdash; Malombe and former Lands CS Charity Ngilu &mdash; are my constituents. Declaring my support for any of them is like a parent favouring one child,&rdquo; Mulu said. &ldquo;I have my personal views but I can&rsquo;t speak because people will not distinguish between my views as an individual and as the chairman of the Kitui Parliamentary Caucus. We were waiting for Musila&rsquo;s mother&rsquo;s burial to meet and make a decision.&rdquo;Musila&rsquo;s mother was buried on Saturday, where Kalonzo was heckled as he addressed the mourners. Yesterday, Mwingi North MP John Munuve said what happened to Kalonzo is a reflection of what everyone is feeling &mdash; the looming death of Wiper.&ldquo;We announced our position in February and we have not changed. None of us has shown interest in changing their decision over that resolution,&rdquo; Munuve said.