The national psyche is currently high on electoral excitement. The majority, if not everyone, are looking forward to the August 8 General Election. It falls within every citizen&rsquo;s right and responsibility to exercise their civil right to elect the next set of leaders.By now, it is evident, especially after the bruising primaries, elections are about numbers. On Wednesday, the Star exclusively reported that Jubilee has contracted a top data mining company, Cambridge Analytica, to help it win in August. Cambridge Analytica is not your next-door start-up firm. The Guardian reported on Sunday the data company was part of Donald Trump&rsquo;s campaign machine, tasked with identifying undecided voters and consequently overwhelming them with messages and adverts. The same enterprise played a critical role in ensuring the Leave side won in the Brexit referendum vote. Deductively, the indicator here is that Jubilee is betting big on influencing &lsquo;middle-ground&rsquo; voters to their end. However, this strategy will be a complementary solution to the old time tactic common in Kenya: Ethnic balkanisation.Ethnic balkanisation is the technique of whipping the masses in their ethnic lines in attempts to consolidate a concrete vote bloc. Putting this into perspective, if President Kenyatta&rsquo;s primary supporters are the Kikuyu, a messaging technique designed to see them rally together and give him a holding platform has to work. Executing this implies using campaign lines and terms that appeal to this constituency. One such message to Uhuru&rsquo;s vote bloc is imploring them to come out and vote in large numbers and retain the presidency. The term they are using here is &ldquo;Uthamaki&rdquo; (royalty).The same applies to NASA flagbearer Raila Odinga. He has the task of urging his Luo Nyanza bedrock to back him in his fourth stab at the presidency. Driving a message that makes &lsquo;his people&rsquo; believe he will, and is ready to ascend to power this time round is likely to give him unwavering support. The message we are already hearing is &ldquo;wakati ni sasa&rdquo; (this is the time) and tuko tayari (we are ready).Actualising and maximising on this tactic will be a relative affair, considering this is a technique that has been applied since Independence. This is, however, beyond the point of this article.The last four or so months have seen Kenyans endure very hard economic times. The prices of basic consumer goods such as unga, milk and sugar have skyrocketed to a level beyond the understanding of even the middle class of this country. A 2kg packet of unga is now retailing at approximately Sh150. The same quantity of sugar now sells at Sh350, depending on the brand you are buying. Kenyans are angry and rightly so.In an environment with diminished economic opportunities, a Sh1, 000 note can not feed a family of four for two days. Rent prices are up. Companies are laying off staff in droves. Businesses are closing shop. Access to credit from financial institutions is a strenuous affair. Milk is just unaffordable to many. Malls are closing even with optimists saying that the middle class is growing. This notion may be a fallacy, after all. Simply put, there is a significant decrease in purchasing power.The reaction from Kenyans, online and offline, presents the image of an angry country. There is a realisation that the high cost of living is beyong ethnic alignment. Even with the presidency or uthamaki, those in Central Kenya are buying household goods at the same price as their counterparts from Nyanza. Thus change in consciousness has seen citizens read from the same page, and react in a similar fashion regardless of their tribe. When the pocket of an individual is hurt, anger cannot recognise any other dimension. Therefore, politicians used to activating political support using the old-fashioned way of mobilising along tribal lines must take notes. The primaries signaled a new trend of protest voting. Leaders who resorted to conventional voter rallying tactics were handed a resounding defeat. This may extend to August 8.