When I think of women in politics, I cannot help but think of Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, the first elected female President in Africa, and how the women who rallied behind her to deliver her presidency.I recently attended an event dubbed New Kenyans, which was hosted by CEO and Co-founder of Nailab incubation lab in Nairobi Sam Gichuru. This event targetted young aspirants in the upcoming August 8 General Election.The gist of it was to give an opportunity to the aspirants to give a pitch that explained who they are, the position they are vying for, a brief description of their ward, constituency or county, their plan, and how they intended to achieve it. In short, it was their interview for the position they were applying for.As I allowed the day&rsquo;s events to percolate later in my mind, I came to one conclusion as a young Kenyan woman. I had failed my country: I have been lazy and settled for the status quo.Lucy Quist, CEO of Airtel Ghana said, &ldquo;Ability is not gender specific and as we promote gender equality in the workplace, we enable our people to tap into the richness of gender diversity. Equality promotes diversity of ideas that drive growth and overall business success.As leaders, we must actively promote equality at all levels in the workplace.&rdquo; We as Kenyan women have taken up the position of lobbying, some being actual foot soldiers, some are more vocal online and offline.However, when given an opportunity and a level playing field, we are failing to take advantage of that. The mere fact that one is a woman does not make anyone a good leader, the same way that being a man does not make one a good leader.During the New Kenyans event, out of the 21 young aspirants only one was a woman, and out of about 100 participants, only a handful were women. When will our words turn into action my fellow women? At what point will we roll up our sleeves and put in the work that will enable us to take up our place in elective leadership in this country? I commend the female leaders who have come forth and earned their leadership positions out of merit. The women who have put up a fight against their fellow contenders and lost. Those women who continue to lobby, not only for equality (sameness) but also equity (fairness).Those women who brave the long queues, some with their babies on their backs, to vote. The women who go out of their way and join the campaign trails. The women who, in whichever capacity have chosen to play an active role in empowering and electing credible leaders despite their gender or age. Remember that the same way being a woman or man does not equate good leadership, being young or old is irrelevant if all you do is point out problems but no solutions are offered. As a young woman, I have quickly woken up to the reality that there is no shortcut to good governance: There are no quick fixes. We need governance that is not only good but also right.A peer-reviewed article, &lsquo;Candidate positioning and voter choice&rsquo; by Micheal Tomz and Robert P Van Houweling, has me thinking about how people vote in a democracy. It has also highlighted a fact we often forget, that Kenya is still a very young democracy, being only 53 years after gaining Independence.Candidate positioning and voter choice are divided in three different ways; proximity, discounting and direction. Proximity theory makes a fundamental claim that if you line up every one of the aspirants, voters will pick the hopeful whose philosophy is most like their own.Discounting theory is like proximity voting, but with an acknowledgement that winning candidates should fight other leaders to complete anything. A discounting voter weights proximity by the view of the present state of affairs.The third theory, directional theory, contends that voters see the world in black and white. They need to vote in favour of whichever hopeful is on their side of the issues. This article talks about how voter&rsquo;s vote based off candidates&rsquo; positions on policy and beliefs. There is the argument that our politics is not issue-based, which I agree with.However, I am conflicted as to what is stopping us from turning our politics away from tribe and popularity, into issues and solutions. When, for example, an aspiring senator stands before the constituents and promises to build roads and hospitals, and the crowd applaused him or her, who is to blame? Is it the arrogant aspirant, who fully knows that his or her functions as a senator is to represent the counties, and serve to protect the interests of the counties and their governments, or the clueless or &lsquo;uneducated&rsquo; masses? Indeed, ignorance is bliss and our comfort zone as women aspirants and the women electorate is unsettling.&ldquo;You may have to fight a battle more than once to win it,&rdquo; Margaret Thatcher said. I have embarked on a battle that has removed me from my comfort zone with one mission in mind: To make Kenya better, in my small capacity through educating the electorate.When I think of women in politics, I cannot help but think of Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, the first elected female President in Africa, and how the women who rallied behind her to deliver her presidency. I recently attended an event dubbed New Kenyans, which was hosted by CEO and Co-founder of Nailab incubation lab in Nairobi Sam Gichuru. This event targetted young aspirants in the upcoming August 8 General Election. The gist of it was to give an opportunity to the aspirants to give a pitch that explained who they are, the position they are vying for, a brief description of their ward, constituency or county, their plan, and how they intended to achieve it. In short, it was their interview for the position they were applying for. As I allowed the day&rsquo;s events to percolate later in my mind, I came to one conclusion as a young Kenyan woman. I had failed my country: I have been lazy and settled for the status quo. Lucy Quist, CEO of Airtel Ghana said, &ldquo;Ability is not gender specific and as we promote gender equality in the workplace, we enable our people to tap into the richness of gender diversity. Equality promotes diversity of ideas that drive growth and overall business success.As leaders, we must actively promote equality at all levels in the workplace.&rdquo; We as Kenyan women have taken up the position of lobbying, some being actual foot soldiers, some are more vocal online and offline.However, when given an opportunity and a level playing field, we are failing to take advantage of that. The mere fact that one is a woman does not make anyone a good leader, the same way that being a man does not make one a good leader.During the New Kenyans event, out of the 21 young aspirants only one was a woman, and out of about 100 participants, only a handful were women. When will our words turn into action my fellow women? At what point will we roll up our sleeves and put in the work that will enable us to take up our place in elective leadership in this country? I commend the female leaders who have come forth and earned their leadership positions out of merit. The women who have put up a fight against their fellow contenders and lost. Those women who continue to lobby, not only for equality (sameness) but also equity (fairness). Those women who brave the long queues, some with their babies on their backs, to vote. The women who go out of their way and join the campaign trails. The women who, in whichever capacity have chosen to play an active role in empowering and electing credible leaders despite their gender or age. Remember that the same way being a woman or man does not equate good leadership, being young or old is irrelevant if all you do is point out problems but no solutions are offered. As a young woman, I have quickly woken up to the reality that there is no shortcut to good governance: There are no quick fixes. We need governance that is not only good but also right. A peer-reviewed article, &lsquo;Candidate positioning and voter choice&rsquo; by Micheal Tomz and Robert P Van Houweling, has me thinking about how people vote in a democracy. It has also highlighted a fact we often forget, that Kenya is still a very young democracy, being only 53 years after gaining Independence. Candidate positioning and voter choice are divided in three different ways; proximity, discounting and direction. Proximity theory makes a fundamental claim that if you line up every one of the aspirants, voters will pick the hopeful whose philosophy is most like their own. Discounting theory is like proximity voting, but with an acknowledgement that winning candidates should fight other leaders to complete anything. A discounting voter weights proximity by the view of the present state of affairs. The third theory, directional theory, contends that voters see the world in black and white. They need to vote in favour of whichever hopeful is on their side of the issues. This article talks about how voter&rsquo;s vote based off candidates&rsquo; positions on policy and beliefs. There is the argument that our politics is not issue-based, which I agree with. However, I am conflicted as to what is stopping us from turning our politics away from tribe and popularity, into issues and solutions. When, for example, an aspiring senator stands before the constituents and promises to build roads and hospitals, and the crowd applaused him or her, who is to blame? Is it the arrogant aspirant, who fully knows that his or her functions as a senator is to represent the counties, and serve to protect the interests of the counties and their governments, or the clueless or &lsquo;uneducated&rsquo; masses? Indeed, ignorance is bliss and our comfort zone as women aspirants and the women electorate is unsettling. &ldquo;You may have to fight a battle more than once to win it,&rdquo; Margaret Thatcher said. I have embarked on a battle that has removed me from my comfort zone with one mission in mind: To make Kenya better, in my small capacity through educating the electorate.Waweru is political researcher