Some 116 Kenyan patients suffering from non-communicable diseases travelled to India between January and March this year in search of medical treatment, data from the Ministry of Health show. A total of 57.8 per cent of these patients were in search of cancer treatment, 16.8 per cent renal disease treatment, while cardiovascular diseases patients were pegged at 7.8 per cent and skeletal disorders accounted for 3.4 per cent. The data show that men account for 54 per cent patients who travel abroad for treatment, while women are 46 per cent. Chief economist at the ministry Elkana Onguti attributes this to the health seeking behaviour of both genders, where women have a better health seeking behaviour than men. “Men are the main decision makers and are likely to make those decisions faster than the women. Our data also show that women are more likely to go for medical screening unlike men, who sometimes wait until the condition becomes worse,” he said in a conference on medical and health tourism held in Nairobi. Data carried out by the ministry in 2015 showed that 40 per cent of the patients who travelled overseas in search of treatment had renal diseases, 21.2 per cent had cancer, 11.8 per cent had a spinal disease, 5.6 per cent had diseases of joints and bones, 2.2 per cent had liver disease, 1.9 per cent had connective tissue disorders, while 1.6 per cent had peripheral vascular disorders. “These are the figures that we were able to capture from the ministry. The numbers could be more than this because some patients come up with other ways of travelling abroad,” Onguti added. Patients seeking to travel outside Kenya for treatment should get approval from the government. They are required to fill in a form with their details and give a valid reason for seeking treatment overseas. “If the patient states that they are going to undergo, for instance, a caesarian section in India, we are going to decline because we have so many hospitals in the country offering that type of service,” said Mary Wangai from the department of standards and quality assurance and regulation at the Health ministry. Amit Thakker, CEO of the Kenya Healthcare Federation, said, “We need to stop sending our patients to other countries but instead look at ways that we can improve our health sector so that we can attract both local and international people who are in need of medical treatment.” The government is planning to come up with a framework to tap into the medical tourism market with the aim of making Kenya the preferred health destination in Africa and globally.