As the country gears itself for the commissioning of the standard gauge railway at the end of this month, it is important to understand that its economic benefits will be fully realised only if we put the necessary supporting infrastructure and policies in place.This is especially true for the freight component of the business that the SGR is expected to handle. Thus, the ongoing expansion and modernisation of the Inland Container Depot (ICD) at Embakasi is critical.The ongoing works, estimated to cost Sh21 billion, and on which China Road and Bridge Construction is the engineering, procurement and construction contractor, will not only provide a solution for some of the capacity constraints facing the Port of Mombasa, but it will also improve the overall efficiency of cargo transport within the Northern Corridor, and optimise the utilisation of the SGR.With the expected improvement in capacity brought about by the SGR, cargo aggregation points such as the Port of Mombasa and the ICD will need to expand in tandem. This way, they will keep up with the heightened evacuation capacity of the new track, both for containerised and bulk cargo. The numbers tell the story of a massive rise in transportation capacity that we must be prepared for. Each freight train will, for instance, pack a haulage volume of 216 twenty-foot equivalent unit (TEUs) or a trailing load of 40,000 tonnes, moving at 80km per hour. Annually, the SGR is designed to move a significant 22 million tonnes.Ongoing works at the Embakasi Depot, which is financed by the national government and the China Exim Bank, comprise the railway and the container yards, under Phase I of the 472km SGR.Work is continuing apace and we are confident it will be completed by the end of this month as planned. Already, the 18 buildings required are 88 per cent complete. On the equipment front, the new gantry cranes are on site, with 85 per cent already assembled. In overall terms, the works required to expand the ICD are 80 per cent done.Equally critical to the efficiency of the ICD and that of the SGR Corridor are the road links between the Embakasi-based facility and the country and Nairobi&rsquo;s road networks. A key component of the modernisation is the construction of two access roads linking the depot through the Southern and Eastern bypasses.Currently, improvement of access into and out of the ICD through the Eastern bypass is 90 per cent complete. The same pace of progress has not been achieved on the Southern Bypass due to challenges around relocations. This link is critical due to the current congestion around the ICD and Embakasi area.It is instructive that with the expected upward spiral in cargo traffic from the current 30,000 TEUs to 450-500,000 TEUs in the next five years, the expanded ICD can only serve the country up to 2023. Going forward, the challenge is on the government to acquire more land to upgrade Kenya&rsquo;s overall cargo handling capacity.The other challenge is freight economics. The huge investment in freight handling, storage and transport capacity will only make sense to Kenya and the region if it is fully utilised by importers and exporters.Thus, we must get the time and economics right to incentivise the use of the SGR as opposed to the road option. Global best practice is that rail freight costs must be 30 per cent cheaper than the road option to attract freight. Besides attractive pricing, discounts and promotional tariffs are the other tools that can be deployed, especially at the beginning, to driveThe MGR, to its advantage, has extensive networks to private depots, industries and sidings to do the last mile. Due to this competitive advantage, transfer from one gauge to the other can be done at the ICDN.There is also need to reduce cargo dwell time at the port, half of which global research shows, is attributable to Customs release processes. The Kenya Revenue Authority should consider innovations like green channels and post clearance audits. Volumes and early bird discounts are another form of incentive.For now, SGR capacity is limited to containerised cargo, yet a significant 30 per cent of port traffic is bulk freight. The SGR&rsquo;s capacity to convey bulk freight like clinker and grains must thus be developed to ensure optimal use of its capacity and achieve the target 40 per cent modal share of the freight market. There is potential for bulk freight handling terminals around areas such as Makadara, which accounts for 60 per cent of the country&rsquo;s milling capacity and Athi River, with its concentration of cement plants.With an inordinate 45 per cent of the cost of doing business in the region accounted for by freight logistics, the SGR will cut transit times from over 30 hours on the MGR to just eight hours, making East Africa competitive and sparking economic takeoff.The author is the CS for Transport, Infrastructure, Housing and Urban Development