Embu Governor Martin Wambora has named a 39-year-old sacco boss as his running mate for the August 8 polls. The governor settled on David Kariuki, CEO Winas Sacco, and county director of trade Josiah Thiriku as choice speaker. Should Wambora win, MCAs will have to vote before Thiriku assumes leadership of the county's legislature. This has been seen as a move to avert the impeachment threats that derailed his first term. By choosing Kariuki as running mate, he is likely to get the backing of teachers who are the majority members of the sacco. Wambora clinched the Jubilee Party governor nominations after flooring Runyenjes MP Cecily Mbarire with 60,549 votes against her 41,987. While launching his re-election campaign in Embu town on Wednesday, he said the "long-lasting" wrangles he has faced in the first term will be dealt with following the plan. The county chief survived an impeachment motion following abuse of office allegations by a section of the MCAs. He denied grossly violating the law by interfering with the procurement of major contracts in the county. More on this: 22 MCAs seek Embu residents blessings for re-impeachment of Wambora Also read: Wambora defends himself before Senate Wambora said the county faced a lot of problems caused by about six power-hungry politicians. He said the rest of the region's leaders and residents were peaceful, united, focused and development-oriented. He said he wanted a Speaker who will run the assembly in a manner that will prevent conflict between the executive and the legislature. "I am happy to note that you have already started disciplining the six who were bringing trouble in Embu by sending them home through the ballot," he said. "Let us please complete this assignment on August 8." Wambora noted that despite the wrangles he managed several achievements including employing more than 800 ECDE teachers. The lot was employed on permanent and pensionable basis. He also noted the county was awarded a trophy for being the best in provision of energy under Thiriku's leadership. The Governor also noted that more than 1,000 plastic water tanks were taken to schools, youths were given loans amounting to Sh16 million and that Embu was awarded in 2015 for supplying electricity to 80 townships and shopping centres. Last year, the Health ministry and Japanese development agency Jica voted Embu the second best countrywide in service provision and data management. The Governor said he wants to have enough time to serve the people during his last term. His vision the next five years is centred on building infrastructure and expanding grassroots micro-finance groups across the county. “Next week we will unveil more water projects in Mbeere to benefit thousands of people,” he said. “We already have loans that have helped thousands of youths start and expand businesses. We will also start a women's enterprise to promote micro-finance projects in the county." Read: Wambora still the favourite in Embu governor race, poll shows Also Read: Embu comes top in health delivery in Kenya - survey Wambora said Embu Jubilee leaders sifted through different proposals to find a candidate with the right track record and who would support his development agenda. He hailed Kariuki for turning the sacco into one of the most successful entities in the county. Kariuki has been Chief Executive Officer for the last seven years. He is credited with turning Winas from the small Embu Teachers Sacco into the biggest sacco in Mt Kenya East with an asset base of Sh3.4 billion. Last year, the organisation recorded an increase in income from Sh483 million in 2015 to Sh611 million. "He is focused, energetic and most-qualified. I would like him to become Embu's second governor," Wambora said at Embu stadium where he addressed thousands of his supporters. “He has had a distinguished career in the cooperative movement and has led the sacco to great success." Kariuki and Thiriku, who are from Embu North and Mbeere North sub-counties respectively, promised to work hard for the county's growth. The CEO said he will use his experience to fight poverty through development initiatives. Thiriku has spearheaded the upgrading of market centres across the county. Wambora was with former Cooperative minister Njeru Ndwiga (Jubilee Senator nominee) and woman representative nominee Jane Wanjuki. They asked the people to vote for leaders who will ensure development and understand their challenges.