Six out of 100 children in standard eight in Busia county cannot handle standard two work, the Uwezo County Learning Assessment Report says.Uwezo is an initiative of Twaweza East Africa that seeks to improve basic literacy and numeracy through a citizen-driven approach to social change. The report, released on Wednesday, shows the standard eight pupils did not master Maths, Kiswahili and English while in standard two.The report for the year-ended December 2015 was released by Busia Education executive Hillary Makhulu. HANDLING STANDARD TWO WORKIt also showed that only 26 out of 100 children in standard three can handle standard two work. Official Francis Njuguna said they visited 4,940 pupils aged between six and 16 years in 149 schools. They sat standard two Maths, English and Kiswahili papers and the results were shocking.The report also indicated that 29 out of 100 children sit on the floor, compared to 15 out of 100 nationally.One textbook is shared among three pupils compared to two pupils nationally. The report revealed that 16 out of 100 pupils were absent from school, compared to 12 out of 100 teachers who were not in school when the Uwezo team visited.startling DISCLOSURE Makhulu said the startling disclosure was attributed to poor parenting, learning environment, books ration and poverty.He said the ministry will adopt the report to correct the anomalies revealed.Knut Busia branch executive secretary Mark Oseno said the shortage of teachers currently stands at 3,600. It contributes to the state of affairs.There is a need by all stakeholders to join hands and address the problems that face education.The learning levels in Busia county account for 42.7 per cent compared to the national average of 47.4 per cent. County Deputy Governor Kizito Wang&rsquo;alwa attended the launch.county government supportThe report also showed that the county government supports half of ECDE centres in Bunyala. The county supports only two out of 10 ECDE centres in Matayos.The statistics were dismissed by county Education official Nelson Etyang, who said Busia has supported 37 out of the 47 county ECDE centres and 24 out of the 39 in Teso North.It also emerged that there are 12 teachers per school with 10 streams in urban areas and 10 teachers for similar schools in rural areas.KISWAHILI, ENGLISH LITERACYOn literacy levels, more standard three girls than boys can read a standard two English story and Kiswahili hadithi. Bunyala subcounty has the highest English literacy levels, while Teso North has the highest Kiswahili literacy levels. The county&rsquo;s English literacy level among standard three children is three per cent below the national average.On the other hand, the Kiswahili literacy level among standard three children in the county is the same as the national average.Samia subcounty has the highest number of pupils who sit on the floor, while Bunyala and Teso South have the lowest, both at 23 per cent. Five out of 10 girls in the county re-enrolled after pregnancy, compared to four out of 10 girls nationally.