Wajir Governor Ahmed Abdullahi has once again urged residents to ignore aspirants inciting them ahead of the August polls.Speaking in Wajir town on Wednesday, Abdullahi said politicians come and go, but residents will remain.&ldquo;I urge residents of our great county to ignore the few people spewing and planting seeds of hatred and animosity in our midst. At the end of the day, we remain brothers and sisters,&rdquo; he said &ldquo;Let us join hands and continue with the journey that we started four years ago. A journey of transformation, development, peace and harmony.&rdquo;Abdullahi spoke to residents in Wajir ICT Hall, when he unveiled the ODM lineup comprising senator, deputy governor and woman representative. He picked educationist Ahmed Nunow as his running mate last month. Abdirahman Abdikadir, popularly known as Adow Jua, is ODM&rsquo;s nominee for Wajir senator. Barey Bulle is the woman representative candidate. &ldquo;Our line up consists of an all inclusive government and we have avoided the politics of clan supremacy so that the transformation of Wajir can continue through peaceful coexistence and harmony among our communities,&rdquo; Abdullahi said. Meanwhile, Sultan Mohamed Ogle of the Mohamed Subeer subclan has endorsed Abdullahi for reelection. &ldquo;Other aspirants have to prove that their leadership capacities are at par with that of Abdullahi. It is only then that we can discuss if they can be elected,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;I have done a survey across the county and I have realised the most popular governor aspirant is Abdullahi.&rdquo;The endorsement of Sultan Ogle could boost Abdullahi&rsquo;s relection bid, especially in the populous Wajir South subcounty, where he comes from.Ogle&rsquo;s endorsement for Abdullahi comes when the Ogaden clan of Wajir South have previously agreed to support one of their own, Ahmed Muhumed, for Wajir governor. Jubilee aspirant Mohamud Abdi also unveiled his lineup last week at a Nairobi hotel. He picked Ahmed Mukhtar as his running mate.