Professor Tomohiko Sugishita, who has previously worked in Kenya as chief adviser in strengthening management for health in Nyanza from 2009 to 2013, made his most recent visit to Kenya on March 24, 2017, to give a public lecture on health following the TICAD VI Conference.On the sidelines of that lecture, he met with Dr Diana Wangari, and talked about his core belief&mdash;that only community-based public health systems are sustainable and capable of having a profound impact on the lives of ordinary people. And effective communication is a central part of this.Below is an extract of his views:&ldquo;My example comes from the post-war period in Japan. We went to war from 1941 to 1945 (WW II). Indeed we lost more than three million people in the battlefield. At that moment and also before that, Japanese health status was really worse than that of Africa. We were struggling through disease after disease and all we wanted was system improvements. Although there were some efforts in the hospitals and communities, especially inspired by Western medicine such as medical hospitals and care systems. We also had traditional medical systems.But after WW II, after 1945, Japan became an American territorial government. At that moment indeed, people, especially wives and children, had been left behind because husbands died in the battlefield. So mothers organised self-help groups to nurture their children and they paid attention to health and education. That&rsquo;s how health was really championed by communities, especially by the wives and mothers.Professional societies, nursing schools, and medical schools were set up through community efforts because there was no Japanese government support at that time, so soon after the war. We were battling with infectious disease control, mainly tuberculosis, which believe it or not was the number one killer in Japan at that time. Many people were affected because of poor nutrition and poor sanitation. many people died from TB and other infectious diseases. Maternal mortality also was very high, in fact much higher than Africa today.People, especially self-help groups, started preventive and health promotion activities in the communities because there were no reliable hospitals and the few available ones were really expensive. Prevention and promotion activities became the backbone of Japanese development. Thereafter, the Japanese government started professional training of the community health volunteers and then gradually there was a medical and hospital system in the kind and manner of Western medicine.But I consider that the health systems in Japan started from the bottom. In the same way we need to pay more attention to prevention and promotion. There are still very strong prevention and promotion activities in Japan, despite developments, especially in school health, and with social movements for physical exercise.On the other hand, hi-tech hospitals were supported by the economic growth of the Japanese society after the war. But in order to have economic growth, we needed a healthy population that could be productive &mdash; and that was promulgated by the prevention and promotion activities started by the wives and mothers.Productivity led to more money and taxes for the government. As such, we need to look at government as an income distribution channel for health through tax allocation for social protection. Social protection promotes longevity. It means a healthier workforce. In Japan, there is really a good cycle because the surplus of the money goes to the hospital systems.That&rsquo;s the real investment in health that the government has made. But it all started with health promotion and prevention activities. Those two things really guide Japanese social and economic growth. The essence of it started in the communities, with wives and mothers ... left alone during the war. That really is the story.&rdquo;