I used to take these evening walks in my neighbourhood, and I&rsquo;d come across many a tuckered out office worker returning home from work. As we crossed paths, I would get this feeling, a sense of guilt almost, that here were people who went to an office everyday and worked whereas I, a freelance writer working from home, rarely woke up before 9:30am, and hardly ever do I sit down to write before 4pm. And then memory smacked the guilt right out of me. Of course, how could I have forgotten, I&rsquo;ve done my fair share of full-time employment, and what I remember is, hardly any actual work gets done in an office, not for most jobs, anyway. As a matter of fact, I get more done as a freelance worker than I did working in an office because even though I start work at 4pm, in silence and devoid of distractions and interruptions, I don&rsquo;t stop working until 10pm. Sadly, I get paid less than I did working in an office, but what to say, following your passion makes little sense and even less cents.But back to the main point, and the question, who works in an office? Answer, hardly anyone. To illustrate, let&rsquo;s look at a typical work day, and time that goes into not doing work.A good place to start is the commute. In Nairobi that means an hour and a half to two hours of travel during rush hour, each way. That&rsquo;s an average of four hours of travel every day; 55 minutes more and you would equal the time it takes to fly from Kenya to the UAE. You travel and get to the office at 8am. For five minutes you check your email for anything urgent and as it&rsquo;s still early, it&rsquo;s unlikely that there will be. So you turn to a colleague to discuss last night&rsquo;s football match; this won&rsquo;t be the only chat of the day. There will be chats during tea breaks, and sharing of office gossip during cigarette breaks. And in between, all day, there will always be someone with less to do stopping by your desk for a chinwag.Meetings come next on the list of time wasters in the office. Several in a day, most meandering, where you sit for an hour at a round table and all you end up with is a list of what will be discussed in yet another meeting. You wouldn&rsquo;t think it but email is a time-suck as well. So addicted have we become to email as a form of office communication that rather then pick up the phone, or walk to the next department to discuss an issue for 10 minutes and be done with it, we&rsquo;d rather email endlessly back and forth, creating email threads that go on and on for days.And while we&rsquo;re still on the internet, let&rsquo;s not forget office time spent on Facebook, personal emails, and the numerous tabs open on your browser related to movie reviews, online stores, news, and even, daringly, content of an adult nature.All this commuting, chatting, meeting, emailing, and web surfing leaves you with how many hours put in doing actual work? Two hours, perhaps less? It&rsquo;s time to rethink this office 8-5 work arrangement, methinks. Let&rsquo;s offer employees, where possible, a selection of flexible work arrangements.At the very least, rush hour traffic will be less nightmarish.