Trouble is brewing in Bungoma’s NASA camp over which party should have the final say and field candidates. The county is the home of Ford Kenya leader and NASA principal Moses Wetang’ula. Wetang’ula, Raila Odinga (ODM), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Isaac Rutto (CCM) joined forces to form the National Super Alliance. Ford Kenya insists that Bungoma is purely its zone and ODM candidates should be locked out of the NASA activities. ODM insisted it has a right to field candidates in the county. Ford Kenya branch chairman Wafula Wamunyinyi on Thursday said they would not allow ODM candidates to campaign in Bungoma. He addressed a press conference in Bungoma town. “We sacrificed as a party and our leader stepped down from the presidential race for Raila. What is so difficult in them sacrificing Bungoma seats for us?” Wamunyinyi asked. The Kanduyi MP said the party will hold a major rally on Monday after Senator Wetang’ula presents his reelection papers to the IEBC. Wamunyinyi said they will declare that Bungoma is “purely a Ford Kenya zone”. “We are going to make a major statement, ODM aspirants should step down,” he said. Wamunyinyi said NASA is likely to lose to Jubilee in Bungoma if all affiliate parties field candidates. “Let’s face reality. Unless we create order, we are going to lose many seats to Jubilee,” he said. But Bungoma ODM county secretary Majimbo Okumu told off Wamunyinyi, saying his assertions are far-fetched. “This man together with his party leader must be out of their minds. We have invested as candidates. How do we step down?” he asked. Majimbo asked why Ford Kenya was panicking and trying to keep ODM aspirants out of the race, if indeed they were so popular. “If the party is popular in Bungoma, why the panic? They know very well that they have been riding on our backs,” he said. Majimbo said that if Ford Kenya continues its underground machinations, they will have no option but to fight them as equal enemies. “We are going to take Jubilee as our competitors, but Ford Kenya as our enemies,” he said. Sources close to the goings on told the Star Wetang’ula has been trying without success to prevail upon Raila to force ODM candidates in Bungoma to step down for Ford Kenya. When NASA announced its lineup for the August polls, Wetang’ula was picked for the proposed position of deputy Premier CS in the power sharing deal. Wetang’ula launched his presidential bid last year at the Masinde Muliro Stadium, but he and three principals recently endorsed Raila Odinga as NASA flagbearer. There has been speculation about what post he would seek. Ford Kenya had reserved the Bungoma Senate ticket for him, fielding no other candidate in the primaries. Early this month, political analyst Isaac Wanjekeche said, “It is going to be an easy ride for Wetang’ula. This will send wannabes, who declared the quest to succeed him, into limbo.” Those who have declared interest in the post include journalist David Makali (ANC), Bonny Nyongesa (ODM) and educationist Juma Mukhwana (Jubilee).