Kenyans will pay only Sh900 for economy train rides between Nairobi and Mombasa under the &lsquo;Madaraka Express&rsquo; service that begins in June.According to Kenya Railways, first-class rides between the cities will cost Sh3,000.The passenger service will operate two types of trains &ndash; intercity and county.The intercity option will see trains operate between the cities, while the county option will make stops at Mariakani, Maisenyi, Voi, Mtito Andei, Kibwezi, Emali and Athi River.Intercity trains have a capacity of 1,200 and will take four-and-a-half hours, while the county train will take about five-and-a-half hours.Charges for containerised cargo from the Port of Mombasa to the Inland Container Depot in Nairobi have been set at $500 (Sh51,675 ). Other freight will cost Sh32,800 to transport.This will result in a 40 per cent decline in the cost of cargo transport in comparison to the $800 (Sh80,000 ) to $900 (Sh 90,000 ) cost of transporting goods by road between Mombasa and Nairobi.The amount of time taken to transport goods will decline from 16-to-24 hours to a maximum of eight.With a total of 33 stations, two main stations (Mombasa and Nairobi), seven intermediate and 24 crossing stations between the cities, both freight and passenger services are set to operate simultaneously and seamlessly. Passenger trains will be given right of way.The inaugural trip on the SGR from Nairobi to Mombasa took about five hours on Monday. The passenger train left Nairobi at 2pm and arrived in Mombasa at around 7pm. President Uhuru will lead some 300 other Kenyans in making the inaugural ride from Mombasa to Nairobi. He commissioned the SGR freight services last evening.According to the feasibility study, the SGR will reduce transport costs, compared to road transport, especially as volume increases.The SGR is expected to shorten the distance between Nairobi and Mombasa, and facilitate efficient cargo transportation.Speaking in Mombasa yesterday, Government Spokesman Eric Kiraithe said the SGR will boost the Kenyan shilling against the US dollar.Currently, one US dollar is equivalent to Sh103. Kiraithe said the SGR project will significantly reduce this.&ldquo;The Kenyan shilling to the dollar will certainly improve. This will be an improvement which will run up to 50 or 100 years. It is not an issue of what happens next week and the other week,&rdquo; he told a press conference at Travelers Beach Hotel.He said the SGR will also improve the gross domestic product within a short time.The first batch of locomotives that will ply the SGR route arrived in the country from China in January this year. A test run on the SGR revealed that commuters will spend at least two hours to travel from Nairobi to Mtito Andei.The Wednesday trip started in Nairobi at 9.30am and the train, without making a stop, arrived in Mtito Andei at 11.30am.The Mtito Andei intermediate station is the midpoint of the 472-kilometre SGR line. Buses plying the route spend nearly seven hours to shuttle between Nairobi and Mombasa.