Car owners will now be obligated to use an electronic chip sticker that allows secure identification and authentication of vehicle ownership.The project to be launched by the National Transport and Safety Authority will see every car using the electronic sticker or a third licence identification. The Third Licence Sticker will be placed on the windscreen, and will bear the motor vehicle&rsquo;s registration and ownership, tax, the chassis number and make, and insurance validation, among other compliance and legal requirements. NTSA director general Francis Meja said the new chip technology will boost Kenya&rsquo;s tax revenue and support the safety of the traffic network. He said its role is to provide a durable link between the vehicle and the numberplate.Motorists will, however, be required to make a one-off payment of Sh700 to acquire the sticker. The chip will expire after 10 years, and motorists will be required to pay another Sh700 for renewal. The same amount will be paid if the chip gets damaged. &ldquo;We are preparing the ground for a radical change in the way enforcement is carried out in this country. We have been depending on police officers on the ground, but with the new technology enforcement will be modernised,&rdquo; Meja said.He said the chip will help the government to identify the number of vehicles in the country. It will also assist in detecting stolen cars through various checkpoints and automated statistics on traffic volume. It is the NTSA&rsquo;s plan to have all vehicles registered for the first time in the country tagged with the chip from July 1. Phase two will entail issuance of the Third Licence Sticker to all cars that will be inspected from January 2018.Phase three of the rollout will involve collaboration with the insurance industry to enable private motorists to acquire the stickers when renewing their motor vehicle insurance.Meja said he is holding talks with the insurance industry to convince them to ditch their stickers in favour of the electronic chip.Some of the features of the third identifier include tamper proof and tamper evident. It will also have read distance of more than six metres and a data retention period of at least 8 years. The chip can pick details of a car travelling at a speed of 200 km/h.