The President rebuked NASA for threatening to boycott elections when a sixth party endorsed his re-election bid on Friday.The endorsement by Democratic Party comes two weeks after those of Maendeleo Chap Chap, Narc Kenya, Kanu, Economic Freedom Party and Frontier Alliance Party. The parties will field candidates for all seats except that of the president. More on this: [VIDEO] Major boost for Uhuru as Kanu, Chap Chap, Narc-K and EFP endorse re-election bid In his address to the party's National Delegates Conference &nbsp;on Friday, the President said Opposition leaders should not give ultimatums of not participating in elections if an appeal by IEBC is successful. Uhuru said the move was cowardly and a factor of dictatorship yet democracy is about giving Kenyans space to make their choice freely, not intimidating the IEBC and Judiciary. "People must learn that issuing threats over issues does not yield results. Kenyans want a peaceful nation. We as politicians must learn to respect the will of the people," he said at the party's headquarters in Nairobi. "This issue of saying that if voting does not go your way there will be repercussions is not helping. I urge all leaders to shun this."The President noted the Opposition&rsquo;s threat was an impediment to a peaceful process.&nbsp;&ldquo;People should concentrate on looking for votes peacefully instead of threatening the IEBC and the Judiciary. If you believe people will buy your agenda, you do not have to use threats and intimidation," he said. IEBC wants its chairman to declare the final results as the c onstitution allows it to declare all winners during elections. &nbsp; The electoral body wants the appellate court to overturn a High Court ruling that election results announced at the constituency level are final and should be used to determine winners in the general elections. But NASA coalition flag bearer Raila Odinga said: &nbsp;"We will not allow IEBC to tamper with the court ruling on the tallying issues. If they will, let them know that no elections will be held." Read: NASA threatens to boycott polls if IEBC appeal on vote tallying goes throughAlso read: Debate over IEBC appeal on presidential vote tallying threatening peace - KaparoReiterating his commitment to democracy and transforming lives, Uhuru said he will not waiver in his quest to unite the country. He &nbsp;asked politicians to respect the choices the public makes on polling day and be peace ambassadors. &ldquo;If we continue being peaceful and united, I believe we will achieve a lot in terms of growth and development,&rdquo; he said. The President&nbsp; also said&nbsp; he will campaign for all leaders who support his re-election bid to unite Kenyans. "True democracy is letting people make their decisions without intimidation. We will campaign together to ensure we sell our agenda and that the nation remains united."&nbsp;Democratic Party leader Joseph Munyao said the chose to endorse Uhuru because of his development track record. &ldquo;We have observed the performance of the President and his administration and are pleased,&rdquo; he said. He&nbsp; spoke strongly against NASA's threats saying they were a major hindrance to democracy. &nbsp;