Vihiga United reclaimed top position on the National Super League log after beating struggling St Joseph&rsquo;s Youth 2-0 at Afraha Stadium in Nakuru on Wednesday.Patrick Okulo&rsquo;s penalty and Patrick Mugone&rsquo;s strike helped Vihiga dislodge Wazito from the summit. Vihiga now have 30 points&mdash;two more than second placed Wazito&mdash;ahead of this weekend&rsquo;s fixtures.Nairobi Stima moved to third place on the log after a 2-0 win over Kenya Commercial Bank while Kibera Black Stars recorded their third win of the season after a 3-1 win over Administration Police.Mosca picked up their fourth point after holding Eldoret&rsquo;s GFE 105 to a barren draw. However, Mosca remains rooted at the bottom of the table and are yet to win a game.Nairobi Stima will tomorrow play Nakuru All Stars at Afraha Stadium hoping to temporarily dislodge Vihiga United from the top of the table. A police derby will be played at the same venue between Kenya Police and Administration Police.At Camp Toyoyo grounds, Talanta entertain Bidco while struggling Agro Chemicals host St Joseph&rsquo;s Youth at Chemelil Sports ComplexOn Sunday, Kenya Commercial Bank will seek to return to their winning ways against taxmen Ushuru at Kenyatta Sports grounds in Machakos.Kenya Premier League promotion candidates Vihiga United face a herculean task against Nairobi City Stars at Camp Toyoyo grounds. Palos FC hosts Mosca at Moi Stadium in Kisumu as GFC 105 entertain Modern Coast Rangers at Kipchoge Keino stadium. Kibera&rsquo;s Black Stars, fresh from an impressive 3-1 win over AP, host Isibania also at Camp Toyoyo.Elsewhere, star midfielder Anthony &lsquo;Muki&rsquo; Kimani has been released from Bandari. Although the Kenya international has not been struck off the team&rsquo;s records officially, coach Paul Nkata told the Kpl offical portal that the player had been granted indefinite leave from the club.It is understood that Kimani has gotten a job outside football at Bandari&rsquo;s mother company Kenya Ports Authority. &ldquo;If a player gets such a job, it is difficult for him to concentrate on football. Especially because he stands to gain a lot from his new job as he looks ahead to his life outside the sport. That, together with the fact that he is approaching his sunset years in as far as his football career is concerned, is the reason we made the decision to let him go so that he can concentrate on one thing,&rdquo; a club official said. Nkata said the decision to leave him out of the team&rsquo;s plans this year was purely an administrative one for which he played no part. He, however, admitted that his team could have done well with his services.&ldquo;It is, however, for the better because he is not stranded. He is still part of the club and he can come back whenever he wants to. He is still in the club&rsquo;s official records.Kimani, who scored six of the 28 goals Bandari put in last season, has been missing in action this season.