Scott Armstrong will be tackle the 2017 East African Safari Classic alongside Harpal Sudle in the co-driver&rsquo;s seat.Scott has saved and prepared for years to take part in Safari after serving as a mechanic in his first Safari Classic in 2009 and 2015 for Nick Mason&rsquo;s 260Z.&ldquo;I was born and raised in Kenya,&rdquo; said Scott, adding: &ldquo;We lived there until I was seven years old when my family moved to the UK. My dad was a big rally enthusiast and took me to watch the Safari Rally, always bringing his camera along too.&rdquo;As he grew up, the Scott became increasingly obsessed by a photo his dad had taken of Shekhar Mehta in the Datsun Violet in 1982. &ldquo;Cars have been my passion since childhood and I have always loved rallying. Slowly the dream emerged to follow in Shekhar&rsquo;s tyre tracks and do the Safari Rally in the same type of car,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;Scott sent me to Tanzania to source this rally car,&rdquo; said Harpal, adding: &ldquo;It was used in the original Safari, as what we think was a recce car for the works team. We bought the shell plus parts and shipped them back to the UK. Our car for the Classic includes much of that parts haul. Scott&rsquo;s dream has been ten years in the making and I am excited to be part of it.&rdquo;Scott went on: &ldquo;The Datsun 160J Violet is one of the most successful cars in Safari Rally history. It won four times in a row (which people have inexplicably forgotten) with Shekhar behind the wheel. I have spent years tracking down original works parts to complete my car to the proper specification and it is almost ready&mdash;just a few jobs to do before shipping. It will be a very proud moment when we become the first team to bring a 160J Violet back to Safari for almost thirty years. I have been a &ldquo;helper&rdquo; on two Safari Classic events and I have made good friends as a result. My team of buddies includes Pali (the loud one), Billy (the crazy one), Idris (the sensible one) and three of my UK rally service crew friends: Kevin, Alan and Lara. We are hoping to get to the end without too many problems. It will be a once-in-a-lifetime adventure and I can&rsquo;t wait to start the Safari.&rdquo;