There are five reasons independent candidates are unwanted guests by established parties. First, there is a stampede to qualify for money from the Political Parties Fund. The fund is 3.3 per cent of the annual audited accounts of government expenditure.That is Sh3 billion strong a year. Only ODM, TNA and URP consumed the money, or so you think. Unfortunately, the three only shared 0.03 per cent or Sh300 million a year since 2013. Still these are huge sums that have party apparatchiks smiling all the way to the bank.The stakes in this election are too high and independents are about to spoil the party. Qualifying conditions were carelessly set too high in the amended law. A party requires three per cent of the total votes cast on top of having three governors, three senators, 20 MPs and 40 MCAs.Assuming the registered 19 million-plus voters all vote, a party needs at least 570,000 votes to qualify. These are totals of all votes cast for the party&rsquo;s candidates. Votes cast for independents are a &lsquo;lost&rsquo; vote, whose only beneficiary is the winning independent.Parliament had reason in the amended Elections Act to strike a balance between Article 4( 2 ) of the Constitution that affirms Kenya shall be a multiparty state, and the political rights of individuals. However, it ended up cannibalising the very essence of Article 4( 2 ) in favour of Article 38, while elevating independents above parties.Second, there is an argument that independents embedded in coalitions are good for mobilising the presidential vote. Fine, but how do you accommodate both independent and party candidate in the campaigns?Granted, it may work in favour of President Uhuru Kenyatta to play neutral in Central Kenya brawls, given the torrent of independents. The offshoot, however, is simmering disenchantment of tell-tale signs of a plot to cannibalise prominent Kikuyu leaders before 2022.Something insidious is afoot when the President&rsquo;s men all tumble down in dubious nominations. It can&rsquo;t be that Uhuru doesn&rsquo;t care not having his loyalists in Parliament were he to win, unless he intends to abdicate after the polls. The alternative argument is to affirm that voters in Uhuru&rsquo;s backyard are in a riotous mood and are sending advance warning of their impending revolt in the August election.Still, it works for Uhuru to coddle independents because, traditionally, even where Central elects from different parties, they always coalesce after elections.Third, loyal regional caucuses cannot be spoken of in NASA strongholds. Leaders invariably elected on a ticket other than that of the region&rsquo;s political supremo arrive in Parliament pursuing a vendetta and spewing venom. Whether it&rsquo;s lack of confidence, poverty of ideas or pocket, there are certainly laggards in the backyard of ODM&rsquo;s Raila Odinga, ANC&rsquo;s Musalia Mudavadi and Wiper&rsquo;s Kalonzo Musyoka that independents will produce.This partially explains NASA&rsquo;s disdain for independents.Fourth, despite the independents in NASA strongholds posing no threat to coalition candidates, the narrative is that they&rsquo;re Jubilee cohorts together with fringe political parties in Jubilee&rsquo;s hunt for the magical 25 per cent vote in 24 counties.NASA National Campaign Committee chairman Mudavadi made no apologies when he lumped independents, together with Vihiga Governor Moses Akaranga&rsquo;s PPK, Cyrus Jirongo&rsquo;s UDP and Ababu Namwamba&rsquo;s LPK, as JP outlets.Fifth, some independents are stealing NASA&rsquo;s votes by fraudulently using its insignia on their merchandise, without so much as a rebuke from the IEBC. There seems to be a tacit agreement to let them operate illegally, hence the alleged nexus with Jubilee. This flagrant abuse of the law has encouraged the independents to form an &ldquo;alliance&rdquo; to circumvent the law, which bars them from belonging to any political affiliation. **********Shouldn&rsquo;t Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery and NCIC chair Francis ole Kaparo be cited for partisan posturing in their objection to NASA&rsquo;s 10 million votes slogan as incitement! Why is it they&rsquo;ve a problem with NASA figures presented in numbers and not Jubilee&rsquo;s 70.1 per cent, which any standard two will tell you means 13.3 million out of 19 million-plus? The two, with due respect, are aging badly.