The IEBC has allowed independent political aspirants until May 8 to submit their forms and symbols to the Registrar of Political Parties.The politicians' queue outside the registrar's office was much longer on Thursday, the expected deadline for the submission of the requirements.They had asked for an extension given the large numbers of hopefuls who have turned up for days now.The IEBC requires the hopefuls to obtain clearance from the Office of the Registrar of Political Parties to be allowed to vie in the August 8 general election. These are then taken to the commission before deadline to be processed for any legal issues.IEBC communications director Andrew Limo said today was not the official deadline for the submission of the forms and symbols. It was just part of "administrative advice", he said, adding the politicians have until 5pm next Monday.Limo said this deadline will not be extended in line with the constitutional cap of 90 days to elections. It added that this will allow them time to go through the documents.The commission's rules state that an independent candidate should not join any party at least three months to the election.Politicians seeking to vie as independent candidates outside Bavaria Restaurant, near the office of the Registrar of Political Parties, May 4, 2017. /PATRICK VIDIJABefore the extension was announced, aspirants who spoke to The Star at Lion Place in Westlands raised their concerns regarding an extension of the deadline."I am worried that if IEBC maintains today's deadline many of us will be locked out," Sheila Wanjiku an aspirant for Nakuru woman representative said. "I have been here since Tuesday but I am yet to be cleared."Another aspirant who did not want to be named said an extension would be a show of fairness."Many people have been waiting since morning," the aspirant said.Joshua Ngale, a commissioner at the registrar's office, said the number of candidates was overwhelming."We have cleared 3,000 candidates so far but the number is still overwhelming. We hope the IEBC can extend the deadline so that we serve everyone," he said.But some of the aspirants said the office was slow and that many of them had been waiting from as early as 6am. They also said some who came later were allowed to go before others."These people are not serious. Mistakes were found in the form I filled. They then told me to wait until 2pm," he told a friend. "They need to organise themselves."The politicians were not discouraged by the chilly weather and showers.The queue overflowed to the nearby Bavaria Restaurant and forced the building manager to hire GSU officers to control them and prevent chaos.More on this: [VIDEO] Registrar shifts desk to Bavaria restaurant as poll losers seek clearance to run as independentsAlso read: Aspirants seeking to run as independents complain of favouritism, clearance delayPoliticians seeking to vie as independent candidates outside Bavaria Restaurant, near the office of the Registrar of Political Parties, May 4, 2017. /PATRICK VIDIJANdung'u said unprecedented numbers were registering and her office was getting overwhelmed."It is a record number of people and we did not budget for this," she said, as six police officers kept order while sweating candidates clutching folders of papers jostled for position.Devolution of some powers to county level and the associated access to lucrative local budgets and high official salaries have sparked intense interest in local contests.That has increased the potential for clashes at county level, leading to fierce disputes over alleged ballot rigging in party primaries."Instead of waiting for their appeals (over rigging) to be heard, they are all coming here to register," Ndung'u said.More than 1,200 people had signed up as independents by Friday evening, she said, a four-fold increase on the previous elections in 2013. Hundreds more were registered on Tuesday."The (nomination) process was not fair. They just used ID cards and bussed people in from out of town," said Martin Muindi, who was registering as an independent after failing to get a party nomination to stand as a member of the county assembly.In his ward of 12,000 people, at least 20 candidates wanted to represent the county assembly, he said. The position guarantees a minimum of $40,000 per year in a country where the average annual salary is $1,300.Candidates with party backing are more likely to be elected, but primaries where voters chose party candidates last month were chaotic and sometimes violent. Many races had to be rerun amid widespread claims of rigging.It was reported on Tuesday that Jubilee Party had concluded 107 out of 500 appeals filed, while the opposition Orange Democratic Movement was hearing hundreds.The Political Parties Disputes Tribunal said they had received 47 complaints by Tuesday.