Kanu was among the six Jubilee affiliate parties that held their National Delegates Conference last weekend to coincide with JP&rsquo;s. There were endorsements galore as President Uhuru Kenyatta literally hopped from one NDC to the other.It was no secret which of the six parties is closest to the President&rsquo;s political heart. Kanu, once home to a greenhorn Uhuru, welcomed him with ope arms and chants of &ldquo;Karibu nyumbani!&rdquo; The fact that he started with the Kanu event, as others waited in the queue, spoke volumes about whom Uhuru respects most among the party leaders. In contrast with 2013, Rift Valley today is divided and Uhuru clings to the hope he will scoop a few votes from Kanu supporters. They will augment those DP William Ruto, former undisputed kingpin of the Rift Valley, will bring to Jubilee.Kasarani was the birth of a new partnership between Jubilee and the grand old party of Kenya. This was after partly leader Senator Gideon Moi almost steered it out of the Jubilee Party parking lot and into the opposition camp a few months ago. Were it not for his father, retired President Daniel Moi, the Baringo senator would be hobnobbing with the five NASA principals.Beside the endorsement, the disturbing politics of 2022 reared its menacing head. Kanu honchos took advantage of the conference and Uhuru&rsquo;s presence to announce &mdash; for the umpteenth time &mdash; Gideon&rsquo;s 2022 dream of the presidency. President Uhuru did not react to these provocative statements, and there&rsquo;s a good reason.When he persuaded Mzee Moi to talk to his son to support him, one of the conditions was that Gideon would run for the top job in 2022 and Uhuru would support him.The son of Jomo was at a crossroads. He took a gamble by putting his interests before those f his Number Two. This is the law of natural justice. You love yourself first.By giving his word to both Gideon and Ruto, the President does not come out as a man who stands by his word.But what was he supposed to do in this quandary? First, his 2013 support base is on the wane. Second, the issues that propelled him and Ruto to the presidency are now behind them. Atop the list were the crimes against humanity cases they were grappling with at the International Criminal Court. Never again will they be able galvanise voters on the premise of victimisation.Other dynamics put Uhuru&rsquo;s quest for the presidency tottering on the edge. Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto has run away, taking a considerable chunk of South Rift to NASA. Therefore, anyone who can help Jubilee win some votes, no matterhow many, is most welcome and awarded his heart&rsquo;s desires, even if it means trampling on previous MoUs.The remarks about 2022 at Kasarani did not come by accident. They were awell-choreographed statement that Uhuru was privy to, going by the wide smile he wore. He knew it would be the second agenda, after the first agenda of endorsing him.The head of state did not tell Kanu delegates to hold their horses as they unanimously called for the Baringo Senator to stand for President in 2022.Uhuru cares little about who occupies State House after he leavesthe helm, which could be sooner than he imagines.His silence as Kanu drummed up support for Gideon&rsquo;s candidacy for President spoke volumes of his hollow commitment to the MoU he signed in 2013 with Ruto to support him in 2022.Uhuru and Gideon have a longer history together ,compared to the one he has with his DP. He can, therefore, take a bullet for Gideon anytime.Ruto and Gideon don&rsquo;t mix. Their fight for political supremacy in the Rift Valley has intensified their long-term enmity. This is why the DP gave the endorsement a wide berth. And this was clever. He had to ski all the six endorsements to avoid being branded a Kanu hater.In 2022, Gideon and Governor Rutto might agree to support each other by one of them dropping out of the race.The DP will be left alone to chew the enormity of his bungled MoU with Uhuru.