Kenya Simbas will play at the Four Nations Cup tournament in Hong Kong alongside Russia, Papua New Guinea and the hosts in November this year.Speaking yesterday in a wide ranging interview, Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) chairman, Richard Omwela, said they have received an invite from the Asian side to replace Zimbabwe in the week-long tournament. Kenya will play Hong Kong twice in August on home soil before renewing their rivalry with them at their backyard in November.Omwela said the matches against four sides will be a boost the country&rsquo;s ranking and will give them every opportunity to qualify for the Rugby World Cup in Japan in 2019. &ldquo;Hong Kong were impressed by our play when we hosted them here last year. They see us as a more competitive side compared to Zimbabwe who have fallen off the radar in recent years. It&rsquo;s an opportunity to test ourselves against good quality opposition,&rdquo; added Omwela.Omwela said they have sent an invite to Belgium and Georgia for a test game at the end of the year. &ldquo;We are also looking at playing either of these countries at the end of the year and we are awaiting their confirmation,&rdquo; added Omwela.The Kenya Simbas have a busy schedule this year with test match against Germany on May 27 at the RFUEA ground followed up by matches in the Africa Cup against Uganda(June 12), Tunisia (July 8) and Senegal (July 15) before playing away to Zimbabwe (July 22) and Namibia (July 29).Omwela noted that this will be the busiest year for the Kenya Simbas in a while. &ldquo;The more matches they play, I think the more the team becomes better. We want to give them every available opportunity to build momentum ahead of Rugby World Cup qualifiers next year. I am sure we will qualify for the 2019 World Cup in Japan,&rdquo; added Omwela. On Kenya Sevens, Omwela said he is satisfied with the performance of coach Innocent Simiyu and his charges so far after an under whelming season that has had its challenges. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s been tough season. We started late and there have too many undercurrents plaguing the team but we have good chance to move up the standings if we play well in Paris and London in the next two tournaments. We could go high as eight,&rdquo; added Omwela. He said the squad will be increased to 30 players starting next season as Kenya will be playing in the Commonwealth Games in Perth, Australia in April, the World Cup Sevens in San Francisco in July as well as World Seven Series. &ldquo;It will be challenging year and we must start our preparations early and identify new talent, to bolster our personnel,&rdquo; added Omwela.