Devolution is often considered a major milestone in the development of all regions in the country. Take a trip round the country, and it will be obvious to you that the dividend of devolution is being realised &mdash; from infrastructure, agriculture to expansion of health facilities as well as street lighting, just to name a few.This emboldens the case for sustainability of the momentum already gained. It is without a doubt that more could have been achieved if more funding were made available to the counties. The question is: How will more funding be generated for the devolved units?Whereas the counties are largely financed from the Exchequer, the scope of growth for this source of funding is limited due to other national priorities as well as international commitments that the country undertakes. It is, therefore, imperative for the county governments to generate additional financial resources from their own base. Evidence of great potential has been cited in many forums, including the County Revenue Baseline Study conducted by the Commission on Revenue Allocation. The study concluded that in the 2014-15 financial year, the county governments collectively raised Sh33.8 billion, against the potential of Sh40.8 billion. This points to revenue mobilisation challenges at the county level that require urgent attention.The capacity challenge &mdash; identifying optimal revenue streams, projecting potential revenue from such streams, determination of optimal levels (rates) app licable to respective levies and managing county debt &mdash; is clearly demonstrable by reviewing the revenue performance by the counties against their own targets for the 2015-16 financial year. A total of Sh35 billion was realised against a target of Sh50.5 billion, translating into a performance rating of 69.3 per cent. It is my submission that such performance can be greatly enhanced by leveraging on the expertise that the KRA has developed through experience and adoption of best practice accessed over time.The conversation the counties should give prominence is how to tap into &lsquo;KRA&rsquo;s experience repository&rsquo;, which it will unwaveringly provide as a patriotic duty. The other key area is policy definition of regulations and laws that will be enacted at the county level. In support of devolution, KRA devolved its structure and established semi-autonomous regional offices. This was to ensure a viable ground presence in all regions, so as to respond to the county-specific needs. In addition, heavy automation investments by KRA would serve the counties well, noting that its taxpayer database inevitably covers the majority of ratepayers and single business permit payers at the county level.In furthering this agenda, the counties of Laikipia and Kiambu signed MoUs with the KRA for collection of land rates and single business permits fee. The partnership shall leverage on KRA&rsquo;s iTax platform, thereby providing the advantage of making payment through any of the 37 banks in the payment gateway, as well as through mobile telephony. Its implementation will also include a joint enforcement approach by both KRA and the respective counties, making it very difficult for defaulters to operate undetected.Whereas the Finance function in the counties is largely guided by the Public Finance Management (PFM) Act, 2012, policy formulation at the county level is largely a National Treasury role. This culminates in the drafting of the County Finance Bill for approval by the county assembly. A key point of divergence with the national government is that whereas the county executive incharge of Finance (county treasury) is responsible for policy formulation, he also has to source for funds as per the County Revenue Act, which is a dual responsibility of equal enormity, on the other hand, the national government has a separation of roles between Treasury, responsible for policy formulation, and the KRA, which mobilises tax revenue. In this regard, a fully functional Corporate Policy Unit within the KRA structure reviews budget proposals and advises on the merits and demerits. This affords KRA the opportunity to contribute effectively towards policy formulation based on the day-to-day interraction with taxpayers and best practice, a competitive advantage that would be beneficial to the counties. Therefore, a partnership between the devolved units and KRA is inevitably a &lsquo;win-win&rsquo;.In conclusion, the current business trend of specialisation (pursuing the core mandate) frees organisations from handling other essential but time and resource intensive activities. This is efficiency, which a partnership with KRA on revenue mobilisation will accord the county governments. Karongo is the is the Commissioner of Domestic Taxes at the Kenya Revenue Authority