James Njoroge, an Uber driver in Nairobi, earns barely Sh500 ( $5 ) at the end of a grueling 10-hour workday ferrying customers through snarled traffic across the capital. Now a new competitor is in town, threatening to undercut even these meager earnings.That rival is none other than Njoroge&rsquo;s own employer.Uber in Kenya, already one of the company&rsquo;s most affordable services in the world, charges customers in Nairobi a minimum fare of Sh300 ( $2.90 ).Uber is aiming to beat back competing services by pushing its prices even lower. In April, the San Francisco-based company announced it was introducing an even cheaper service at half that price, Sh150 ( $1.45 ), by allowing its drivers to use much older, lower-quality cars.Drivers say they are bearing the brunt of the price cuts. In February, drivers went on strike to protest fare cuts that they said made it difficult for them to break even. The new pricing is much lower than that.The prospect of losing what is already a threadbare living is making Njoroge, 29, nervous.&ldquo;We&rsquo;ve been working for them so much, but now they&rsquo;re slashing us,&rdquo; he said recently, slowing down his Toyota, a seven-year-old model, hardly brand-new but newer than the cars expected to be part of the fleet for the coming service, uberGO. He waited patiently for a herd of goats, led by two teenagers wearing Adidas hoodies, to cross the road. Traffic swiftly packed up from behind. &ldquo;Kenyans always go for cheap-cheap, so this is worrying,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know what to do.&rdquo;Uber has quickly expanded across parts of Africa, where it is seen by those signing up as drivers &ndash; or &ldquo;partners&rdquo; in the Uber lingo &ndash; as a rare job opportunity on a continent with stubbornly high levels of unemployment.But the service has stirred debate over how low fares should go, and the company has faced a series of strikes from South Africa to Lagos. This month, drivers in Lagos, Nigeria&rsquo;s biggest city, went on strike after fares were slashed by 40 per cent.Faced with fierce competition from other ride-hailing apps, Uber&rsquo;s latest service in Kenya, critics say, would pit its own drivers against each other in a kind of cannibalistic race to the bottom, eroding what little they already earn.&ldquo;To live in Nairobi, it&rsquo;s very hard,&rdquo; Njoroge said recently in his home in Umoja, a dusty but vibrant neighbourhood on the outskirts of Nairobi where, within a short space of time, a fight broke out, a minibus with &ldquo;Rock Gospel&rdquo; stenciled on its side unloaded passengers, a man hawked grilled meat and a fashionably dressed woman crossed paths with a strutting rooster.&ldquo;You have to hustle on all sides,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;If we don&rsquo;t have many clients,&rdquo; he said, referring to competition from uberGO, &ldquo;we&rsquo;ll need to find new options for work.&rdquo; Njoroge already has two other side hustles.Uber insists that the new service would allow drivers to save on fuel and other expenses, ultimately making their jobs more profitable.&ldquo;Revenues might not be higher, but the costs will be lower, so ultimately profits will be higher,&rdquo; Alon Lits, Uber&rsquo;s general manager for sub-Saharan Africa, said in an interview. &ldquo;We believe our economics make sense.&rdquo; He added that the company was in the process of getting feedback from drivers in order to &ldquo;interrogate our assumptions before moving forward&rdquo;.In Nairobi, Uber and its competitors like Taxify, an Estonian company, and Little Cab, a company co-owned by mobile network giant Safaricom that offers free Wi-Fi in its cars, are aiming to capture clientele from a rising, but fragile, middle class that still values affordability, sometimes at the expense of quality of service or even vehicle safety. Competition is fierce even among apps for notoriously dangerous boda-bodas, or motorcycle taxis, which are a major cause of road accidents.In February, a series of strikes by an informal union of Uber drivers forced the company to raise the minimum fare to Sh300 ( $2.90 ) from about Sh200 ( $2 ), and rates to Sh42 ( 39 US cents ) per kilometre, up from Sh35 ( 33 US cents ). But many drivers say uberGO, which is Sh29 (US 29 cents) a kilometre, is a fresh attempt to bring down rates, given that many cost-conscious customers are likely to use the cheaper service. The company last month said it was even offering Sh300 ( $30 ) &ndash; six times Njoroge&rsquo;s net daily earnings &ndash; as an inducement to drivers to sign up to the new, cut-price service.Njoroge and many other Uber drivers expressed anxiety not just about losing customers but also about failing to meet car loans &ndash; loans that Uber helped them secure in the first place and that require drivers to stay with the company until they are paid off.Uber sponsors its drivers based on their earnings record with the company. Without Uber, drivers struggle to obtain auto loans, even for secondhand cars, because banks require borrowers to earn monthly salaries of Sh50,000, or about $485. That is far above what most ordinary Kenyans, even those with diplomas and degrees, can hope to earn.Once a driver pays off the loan, which typically takes about three years, the car is the driver&rsquo;s to keep, although by that stage it will typically be 10 years old. At that point drivers can leave Uber and start their own businesses, although many drivers said they intended to stick with Uber. Free of car-loan payments, they would keep significantly more of what they earn.Until the final loan installment is made, however, drivers are pretty much at the company&rsquo;s mercy. If they have not logged on to Uber&rsquo;s softwarefor a week or so, the company sends a warning. If they are absent for an extended period of time, and Uber decommissions them, the bank could withdraw its loan.Uber &ldquo;gives with one hand and takes with the other,&rdquo; said Samuel Gichia, another Uber driver, who nonetheless appreciated the freedom that Uber offered. &ldquo;My car is my office,&rdquo; he said, drumming his fingers on the steering wheel as he listened to reggae music. &ldquo;When you no longer have a loan, that&rsquo;s when Uber is going to be very sweet.&rdquo;Drivers also complain that the Uber algorithm means they will be paid only for distance traveled and no longer receive extra fare when they are stuck in traffic. That amounts to an effective pay cut, since the driver loses fuel, time and the opportunity to pick up new passengers. A two-hour journey over a short distance could still carry a fare of only Sh300 ( $2.90 ) &ndash; the minimum fare &ndash; because &ldquo;you haven&rsquo;t moved,&rdquo; said Njoroge. (Even then, Uber takes its 25 per cent cut.) Lits of Uber denied those claims, saying drivers do receive compensation for time spent in traffic.Uber drivers say they might make Sh6,000, or $58, a day, which doesn&rsquo;t seem that bad by Kenyan standards &mdash; until they lay out their laundry lists of loans and work-related expenses.