The political life of big guns, including many parliamentary committee chiefs voted out during nominations, hang in the balance.Some are hoping for a public appointment if Jubilee or NASA wins.Both Senate and National Assembly committee heads lost in the hotly contested primaries and could only serve in the next Parliament if they will be nominated. Jubilee Party leader Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA flagbearer Raila Odinga have urged nomination losers to support winners.&ldquo;Those who lost will not be left behind. We&rsquo;ll accommodate everybody. This is your government. This is your party and we will be together in our march to deliver change and transformation to our country,&rdquo; Uhuru said last Thursday at the JP headquarters in Pangani, Nairobi. Some losers have conceded defeat and pledged to back their parties, while others have stayed put in the race as independents after quitting and citing biases and unfairness in the primaries. Mukurwe-ini MP Kabando wa Kabando, for instance, thanked his constituents for having elected him for two terms. He was defeated by Anthony Kiai. &ldquo;To all my past or recent competitors, we remain friends. As I always say in all forums, political rivalry is not personal enmity. Even as I conceptualise, reflect and determine next steps ahead, my focus and passion is already seized to promoting reelection of the UhuRuto presidency. Other matters will come amidst,&rdquo; Kabando said. National Assembly Deputy Minority leader Jakoyo Midiwo, Senate Deputy Speaker Kembi Gitura and Kenya Women&rsquo;s Parliamentary Association chairperson Cecily Mbarire were trounced in the primaries. Midiwo was defending his Gem MP seat, Gitura his Murang&rsquo;a senator seat, while Mbarire (Runyenjes) wanted to unseat Embu Governor Martin Wambora. Gitura has ditched JP to contest as independent against his rival Kiharu MP Irungu Kang&rsquo;ata. Mbarire was waiting for JP Disputes Tribunal chaired by Faith Waigwa to rule on her petition against Wambora&rsquo;s victory before deciding her next political move. Midiwo has threatened to defect from ODM if the party does not give him the ticket, attributing his defeat to Elisha Odhiambo to underhand deals by Raila&rsquo;s elder brother Oburu Oginga, who also lost the Bondo MP race to incumbent Gideon Ochanda. Other parliamentary committee bosses trounced are Kigumo MP Jamleck Kamau (Energy), Githunguri MP Njoroge Baiya (Constitution Implementation Oversight), Mbeere South MP Mutava Musyimi (Budget and Appropriations), Ainamoi MP Benjamin Lang&rsquo;at (Finance), Tharaka MP Alex Mwiru (Lands) and his Tetu counterpart Ndung&rsquo;u Gethenji (Defence and Foreign Relations). Also on the list are Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo (Public Accounts), Nyeri Senator Mutahi Kagwe (ICT), Bomet Senator Wilfred Lessan (Devolved Governments), Kajiado North MP Moses Sakuda (vice-chairman for Lands), Nyeri woman representative Priscilla Nyokabi (vice-chairperson, Justice and Legal Affairs), Senator Martha Wangari (deputy boss, Labour) and Kajiado Senator Peter Mositet.