On a cold, windy morning at The Karen Hospital, a team of specialists from the US perform life-changing reconstructive surgeries to women who underwent female genital mutilation (FGM) while young.These women, who have lived with an unwanted scar in their body, felt their sense of womanhood has been stolen from them and they want it back.This has traumatised them mentally and lowered their self-esteem. However, for two weeks, hope has shone in the lives of these women, some married with children, others single.Dumped by loversAt exactly 12.20pm, 29-year-old *Fatma Noor (not real name) is wheeled out of the theatre. Clad in the green-coloured hospital outfit for patients and covered in white sheets, tears of joy roll down her eyes.She tries to sit upright to wipe her tears, and whispers: &ldquo;I am a now a complete woman.&rdquo;She is then taken to the ward, where she will be monitored for about 24 hours before she goes home.&ldquo;I am crying because the surgery has brought back dark, painful memories. I was just seven years old. Nobody cared about my feelings because it was a rite of passage that every girl in my community had to undergo. Luckily, my tears right now are not of sorrow but of joy,&rdquo; Noor says as she wipes a tear and smiles while looking up to the ceiling.*Ann Njeri, 62, also underwent the cut when she was just 13. The mother of two says the cut in her body led to her being rejected by men after they saw her scar.&ldquo;This happened to me so many times. They were never clear that about what made them dump me but I know it was because of my scar. But I am happy I found man who married me the way I was and God blessed us with two children,&rdquo; Njeri said.Both her babies were delivered through caesarian section because of the damage the cut left in her body. She spoke volumes about her sex life, which she termed as horrific and painful.&ldquo;I have never enjoyed sex. It has always been painful. I felt like I was a sex gadget, only doing it to please my husband. All my life, I have always wanted to know what it feels like to have an orgasm,&rdquo; she said.On Thursday, she walked out of the theatre with a different feeling; closure to traumatising past and a new lease of life after she regained her identity.These women are just a handful of those who underwent FGM when they were young without their consent and are lucky enough to have undergone a second cut. Only this time, they were getting their identity back and will be able to enjoy sexual intercourse.How the surgery works This is the first such surgery to be done in Kenya. The surgeries were done by doctor Marci Bowers, who specialises in sex reassignment surgery in the US.Nearly 50 women between the ages of 21 and 62 years were operated on. Bowers said most of them had undergone the first two types of mutilation.Half of them had undergone Clitorodectomy, which is the partial or total removal of the clitoris. The other half went through excision, the partial or total removal of the clitoris and the labia manora (the inner folds of the vulva) with or without the excision of the labia majora (the outer folds of the skin of the vulva).In a 30-minute procedure, Bowers dissects the scar left on the girls&rsquo; clitoris and releases the remaining part of the clitoris. Before the women are wheeled into the theatres, they are examined by the doctor to establish the extent of the damage. They are then put under a local anaesthesia.&ldquo;Most people think the clitoris is a small part of the body. It is actually around 10&ndash;11cm long. What is usually cut during the mutilation process is in only 5 per cent,&rdquo; Marci said.The clitoris is a complex organ, and when a woman undergoes cutting, only the visible part of the clitoris is cut off. It has a root about 10cm long that lies beneath the surface, arching around the vagina. It is this that reconstructive surgeons use to rebuild a working organ.Bowers added: &ldquo;Once the remaining part of the clitoris has been pulled out to the surface, it is then sowed into its natural place. It&rsquo;s not just about the restoration of sexual sensation. The number one reason is restoration of identity. Women who have been cut feel their sense of womanhood has been stolen from them and they want that back. It&rsquo;s about not being different anymore.&rdquo;For those who had their clitoris and lips mutilated, Bowers said their procedure not only involves releasing the remaining part of the clitoris but also creating vaginal lips.&ldquo;Every girl had a different type of mutilation. In some cases, the women had been sown up and what was left behind was a tiny whole. One that was only able to pass out urine and menstrual fluid,&rdquo; she said.During the two-week surgeries offered at Mama Lucy Kibaki and The Karen Hospitals, only four women were turned away because they had minor cuts on their clitoris.Once their clitoris are reconstructed, the patients are monitored for about 48 hours before being discharged. While at home, they will be on medication for about two weeks and resume sexual intercourse after six weeks.Call for education Bowers said restoring sexual pleasure is possible because the whole clitoris is sensory, not just the tip. Along with better cosmetic appearance, sensation, and reduction in pain and infection, Bowers says patients have reported having orgasms for the first time.A survey by French doctor Pierre Foldes in 2012, who was the brains behind Clitoroplasty, showed that more than 60 per cent of women who went through the surgery reported to having sexual orgasm for the very first time in their life.The study, which featured 3,000 women, also showed that 90 per cent of reported feeling clitoral pleasure. Dr Foldes was, however only able to follow on 29 per cent of his patients who were able to open up about how the surgery changed their life.According to the Kenya Demographic Health Survey 2014, 21 per cent of women between 15 and 49 have been circumcised. 43 per cent were circumcised between 10 and 14 years. Twenty-seven per cent were cut between five and nine years, while another 27 per cent were cut at 15 and above. Eighty per cent were cut by traditional women circumcisers, 15 per cent by a medical professional.Anti FGM Board CEO Bernadette Loloju thanked the doctors for the operations but called for further action.&ldquo;This surgery has helped a lot of FGM survivors not only in Kenya but around the world. However, the only way to win this war that is violating the rights of or women and girls is by constantly creating awareness to the communities on the dangers of FGM and prosecuting those found culpable,&rdquo; Loloju said.FGM poses a slew of health risks, including causing damage to adjacent organs, recurring urinary tract infections, birth complications, formation of dermoid cysts, painful sexual intercourse, increased risk of HIV infection and in some cases can lead to death.Bernadette said the community, especially men, should be educated on the dangers of subjecting women and girls to undergo FGM.Consultant reconstructive and plastic surgeon at The Karen Hospital Abdullahi Adan said 10 surgeons were trained on how to do re-constructive surgery on FGM victims.The Karen Hospital will be turned into a centre for excellence where, for Sh150,000 at most, FGM victims can undergo a second cut to restore their dignity and ability to enjoy sex.