&ldquo;I have not condemned independent candidates. It is their right to leave the party and run as independents. But it would be a conflict of interest if I campaigned for independents and left out my ODM flagbearers,&rdquo; Raila Odinga recently and emphatically declared.&ldquo;Tulikwenda andu meuneena kithyomo kitesikie ukamba. Either mundu enaitu, kana ndenaitu. Na vakavikwa vandu ngulye Raila anyuve kana eenda Kalonzo kana enda andu angi, ni kana yithiwe wazi. (we don&rsquo;t people who are speaking a language that is unknown in Ukambani. You are either for us or against us. And it will reach a point when I will ask Raila to choose who he wants - Kalonzo or other people - so that things come out clearly,&rdquo; thus Kalonzo Musyoka, also recently.The context of the two statements above has the potential of having a very great impact on Raila as he seeks his fourth - and in all likelihood the last &ndash; stab at the presidency. As matters stand, the issue of independent candidates is a hot potato in his ODM party, especially in his Luo Nyanza backyard.It is an open secret that ODM had the most shambolic primaries when the various parties went to the polls to choose their candidates ahead of the August 8 election. There have been protests that some party apparatchiks turned into hawkers selling the ODM ticket to the highest bidder and not to the genuine winners.As this was happening, Raila maintained a studious silence, almost watching the events as a disinterested spectator. But some of the losers think otherwise. According to this school of thought, there was no way Raila, as the party leader, could not have been privy to the goings on in ODM.&ldquo;How come when there was a hue and cry over the apparent clearing of Oburu Oginga as a candidate Raila stepped in and had him nominated to the East African Legislative Assembly?&rdquo; one ODM supporter said.Whether Raila knew about the wheeler dealing and the alleged hyenas at Orange House, ODM HQ, is neither here nor there. But what is an established fact is that the huge fallout arising from the bungled nominations gave rise to a strong battalion of independent candidates who are set to be a thorn in the flesh of the ODM nominees.In order to remain relevant, nearly all of these independents have shown that they will be vying for gubernatorial, legislative and ward seats on their respective parties&rsquo; tickets while supporting Raila&rsquo;s bid for the presidency.Let&rsquo;s take a small detour to the ruling Jubilee Party, especially in Central Kenya, where there is another huge bunch of independents. As is the case with their Luo Nyanza counterparts, the Central Kenya independents swear their allegiance to party leader President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s reelection bid.Some of these people say that they have no problem with the head of state, but point accusing fingers at &lsquo;powerful forces&rsquo; within the ruling party for their losses and the subsequent decision to run as independents. Silent barbs have been thrown in the direction of Deputy President William Ruto and Devolution Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri.According to the Constitution, anyone is free to run as an independent so long as he or she is not a member of any political party. In addition, such a person must not have been a member of any political party three months prior to the elections.It seems like most of the independents have passed this legal requirement and are now ready to face the men and women who beat them at the primaries.Back to ODM and Raila maintaining that inasmuch as he does not bar anyone from contesting as an independent, common decency demands that he supports only ODM-certified candidates.&ldquo;I will support ODM candidates. Kalonzo Musyoka will back Wiper teammates, Wetang&rsquo;ula will support Ford Kenya candidates, Musalia Mudavadi will root for Amani National Congress candidates and Isaac Rutto will campaign for those in Chama Cha Mashinani,&rdquo; Raila declared.However, it seems the biggest fear Raila has is that if the number of independents outgun those in ODM then his presidency could be a lame duck one from Day One. Political analyst Osborne George Yogo concurs with this school of thought.&ldquo;We have seen what the Jubilee government has done with its so-called tyranny of numbers, which they have used to pass even those laws that are clearly not in the interests of the entire country. A president without a majority in Parliament is a president waiting to be impeached at the slightest opportunity,&rdquo; he said.The fact of the matter remains that this issue of independents is threatening to tear ODM - and by extension Raila&rsquo;s fourth presidential bid &ndash; right down the middle, if the war of words on social media is anything to go by.Some ODM supporters are of the view that Raila should not antagonize the independents and their supporters if he wants to garner as many votes as possible. In thinly veiled threats, these independents&rsquo; supporters always give a hint that they may be forced to vote for governor, legislator and ward seats only in best case scenarios. Or, in the worst-case scenario, vote for Uhuru.Fiery Mbita MP Millie Mabona also waded into the controversy and in a Facebook post said that all ODM supporters must support the party&rsquo;s MPs as well as Raila for President. This did not go down well with Jerome Ogola, who was an ODM parliamentary aspirant. Saying that the primaries were a sham, Ogola argued that many of them were left with no choice but to switch parties after being shortchanged at the primaries.However, Yogo feels that very few of the independents lost unfairly. &ldquo;The truth of the matter is that a good number of these people were beaten fair and square. Even if they vie as independents, they will still be beaten. They should just swallow their pride and support the bigger ODM cause,&rdquo; he says.He warns of the danger of having too many independents in Parliament, saying the fact that they owe no allegiance to any party makes them easy targets to be bought by the highest bidder whenever there is a crucial debate/vote.This is lent credibility when looked at against the milieu that the law is silent on what happens if a person elected as an independent decides to align himself or herself with a particular political party as soon as they get into Parliament.Even as the issue of independents gives Raila a waking nightmare, there is also the small matter of the war of words that has broken out between his number two Kalonzo and Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama, a tiff that saw Kalonzo issue the statement quoted at the beginning of this article.During the burial of the mother of Kitui Senator David Musila recently, Muthama accused Kalonzo of having interfered with the Wiper nominations, meddling that he claimed saw many popular politicians who had ran afoul of Kalonzo, like Musila, lose in the nominations.It was therefore only a matter of time before Kalonzo moved in to stamp his authority by issuing what many construed to mean an ultimatum to Raila. However, a political analyst well versed with Ukambani politics, Solomon Muthusi, feels that Kalonzo took the wrong approach.&ldquo;Kalonzo is someone in the league of Raila and Uhuru, and, by directly taking on Muthama, he was not scoring any political mileage but was doing the reverse. What he managed to do was to elevate Muthama to a higher pedestal,&rdquo; he says.According to Muthusi, what Kalonzo should have done was to let his foot soldiers do battle with Muthama. &ldquo;This is a fight he should have left to people like Wavinya Ndeti and later cascade it to MCAs, who would try and make life difficult for the senator in Ukambani. This way Kalonzo would be left free to engage his peers like Raila and Uhuru,&rdquo; says Muthusi.With the official campaigns kicking off this weekend, signaling the looming election, it will be interesting to see how the two NASA principals will handle the twin crises in their respective backyards. As many have said, this is one election NASA has a very good chance of winning.With the price of basic commodities almost becoming out of reach for the ordinary person and with corruption allegations against the government piling up by the day, NASA have more than enough of an arsenal in their armoury to tackle the Jubilee administration.