Uasin Gishu county has rejected a proposal to bury the three murdered children of Kapsoya MCA aspirant James Ratemo in a residential estate in Eldoret town.The lawyer for the family, Charles Nyamweya, yesterday said that instead Clifford Nyamweya, 7, Dan Nyamweya, 5, and Glen Ongaki, 3, will be buried at Nyacheke village in Kisii on June 9.The children&rsquo;s uncle, Enock Onsase, is a suspect in the case. The motive of the mutilation and strangulation murders has not been determined.Nyamweya said the county rejected burial in town for health reasons. Ratemo&rsquo;s home is in a residential area, the plot is small and the texture of the soil is unsuitable.Neighbors&rsquo; concerns also were considered. &ldquo;We have written to the family responding to the request to bury the bodies at Kapsoya. Usually, we do not allow such burials within the town as per the law,&rdquo; said county Health executive Margaret Chepkwony. The family was instead asked to bury the bodies at Kiplombe Christian Cemetery, with all costs waived.But the lawyer said the family decided to look for an alternative site in Kisii. &ldquo;Owing to what has happened, the family requires time to prepare for the burial in Kisii. That is why we have set a date that gives about two weeks to prepare,&rdquo; said Nyamweya.He faulted the county, however, saying several other people had been buried in Eldoret after being granted exemptions by the county. But Chepkwony said recently the county was forced to stop such a burial in Elgon View Estate because it was against the law. The family held a fundraising on Thursday to offset burial costs. Pathologists said the three were strangled before their bodies were thrown into River Nzoia. They were also mutilated.A postmortem, led by Dr Keittany Kibet, revealed the children lacked air in the lungs, indicating strangulation. The bodies were recovered on Friday last week. Kibet said it is not possible to know if the killing was done by one or more people or if the children might have been drugged first.