Coast Water Services Board has appointed Jacob Kimutai its new CEO despite a court order halting the move. He replaces&nbsp;Joseph Omwange who served in acting capacity for 17 months. There were allegations Deputy President William Ruto influenced the board's decision but a cting chairperson Sureya Hersi said Ruto did not know he applied for the job. &ldquo;The DP is not aware of the process,&rdquo; she said and trashed reports Kimutai&rsquo;s integrity was questionable as he was fired by his former employer.&nbsp;&ldquo;There is no documented evidence to show he was sacked."&nbsp; Hersi said the board forwarded three names to Water CS Eugene Wamalwa who settled on Kimutai.&ldquo;We are not the ones who appointed him. The new CEO scored highest,&rdquo; she said CWSB offices when Kimutai was introduced on Friday. Directors of the Coast Water Services Board which workers want dissolved over Jacob Kimutai's appointment as Chief Executive Officer, May 5, 2017. /ERNEST CORNELBut Abdalla Miraji, who sought court orders to bar Kimutai from taking office, claimed the DP had direct interest in the board's projects at the Coast and needed someone who would play ball. &ldquo;Ruto is pushing this appointment. He has taken a tender of Sh2.7 billion for Baricho Two...they want their person," Miraji alleged.The Labour court's order had prohibited the respondents - CWSB and its team of directors - from the &ldquo;unfair, secretive staff recruitment process&rdquo; for the position of CEO. The board was also compelled to advertise the position in all dailies with national circulation. Applicants names and their qualifications were also to be published in the newspapers and the board's website. The respondents were also required to publish the named of short-listed applicants and their qualifications, and the criteria used to select them. The recruitment was halted pending the issuance of further court orders but by the time this was done, the CWSB had finished its meetings was about to announce Kimutai's appointment.Read: Coast water board on the spot over Sh18mAlso read: No water supply until debts paid, says board'Court order followed appointment'CWSB legal officer Alex Masake said the orders meant the status quo would remain and that Kimutai would continue serving as Chief Executive Officer.&ldquo;The court order was received at 11.45 am May 5 yet the meeting that approved Kimutai&rsquo;s appointment ended at 10.30 am May 5. Therefore status quo remains,&rdquo; he said.Hersi said the board appointed the last CEO three years ago and that his term ended on September 16, 2015. Engineer Kanui wasappointed in acting capacity from September to December 2015 when Omwange took over.She said the board advertised the position between September and December 2015.&ldquo;In a meeting held in December [that year], it was resolved that the recruitment process be done by a consultant,&rdquo; she said.Manpower consultants was hired in May 2016, interviewed applicants and forwarded the name of the successful person to the board for an interview.But Manpower&rsquo;s selection procedure was discarded as it had &ldquo;gaps&rdquo;. Hersi said a recommendation was made for a repeat exercise by a reputable company. &ldquo;In November 2016, Deloitte and Touche was awarded the tender. They presented their list on January 20,&rdquo; she said.On January 27, the board interviewed candidates presented by Deloitte and Touche and forwarded three names to the Cabinet Secretary.&ldquo;In may this year, the CS wrote to the board recommending Kimutai be appointed as the new CEO,&rdquo; she said. CWSB workers threatened to hold demonstrations should Kimutai remain in office and threatened to shut down water supply to the county.Water supply to the six Coast counties was later stopped until further notice amid the calls against the appointment.&nbsp; More than a million households will be affected in the region where a water crisis was already in play. Prices of retailed water have been doubling. The workers downed their tools and&nbsp;stopped water supply from the region's three main plants - Mzima, Marere and Baricho. Chief Shop Steward Lilian Mackenzie who is leading the call for new Coast Water Services Board CEO Jacob Kimutai not to take office. /ERNEST CORNELChief Shop Steward Lilian Mackenzie said the law was breached and Kimutai's appointment illegal. More than 300 CWSB workers are expected to stage protests at the offices on Monday.They have given the government a seven-day ultimatum to dissolve the board failure of which they will&nbsp;completely paralyse operations. &ldquo;We want Omwange to be confirmed as our new CEO because he has been acting for more than one year," she told journalists at the board's office today.Mackenzie said Kimutai's track record had been tainted and that he was not fit to lead, and questioned his ability to implement the new Collective Bargaining Agreement Omwange signed. She said the latter properly handled workers' welfare, ensured salaries were remitted on time and confirmed more than 100 workers. &ldquo;No advertisement was made,&rdquo; she said, adding&nbsp; the board members of Kenya Union of Commercial, Food and Allied Workers also said Kimutai was appointed secretively.