Janet Martin came for holiday at the Maasai Mara Game Reserve 10 years ago, not knowing that she will end up building a permanent relationship with the community living near the world-famous game reserve at the Kawai area. During her trips around the areas surrounding the game reserve, she was surprised to find out that children at the Emurutoto Primary School were going to school at around 9am. When she asked why this was so, she was told that they could not go early due to the risk of encountering wild animals still wandering around early in the morning. Mama Janet, as she is fondly known among the locals, was touched by the plight of the pupils, whom she felt could not be able to catch up with others in other areas since they did not arrive in school on time. She decided she was going to do something to change the lives of the pupils, some of whom were walking 10km to reach the school. Call for support “When I traveled back to America at the end of my holiday 10 years ago, I felt the burden of changing the lives of the pupils of Emurutoto Primary School for the better,” Mama Janet said. “Wost of them were covering 20km to and from school, and in most cases, they stayed without taking any meal, which was likely to affect their health and studies.” She founded Angels In Africa, an organisation she used to seek support for her project from friends after narrating the plight of the community. She started by supporting members of the Naretisho Women’s Group in poultry and beekeeping, which enabled them to have their own income and improve the lives of their families. Since then, Mama Janet has visited Kenya, particularly the Maasai Mara, annually to inspect the progress of her pet project, where she has pumped millions of shillings to make the Emurutoto Primary School an ultra-modern school at par with other modern schools in the country. “With the help of friends back in America, we have been able to put up two dormitories for boys and girls, with each of them accommodating 200 pupils,” Mama Janet said. “This has enabled pupils from class four to eight to stay in school full time as they concentrate on their studies, which has really improved their performance in national examination.” No strings attached The School Management Committee chairman Julius Mokita said the people of Kawai hold Mama Janet in high esteem since they have never seen anyone with a clean heart, who is ready to assist them with no strings attached. He said they all consider her to be their mother for improving the school their children have been going to for many years. Mokita said Mama Janet has spent more than Sh60 million to build two dormitories and a dining hall, which hosts a modern kitchen with electric stoves and fridges rivalling nearby tourist lodges at the Maasai Mara, with the dormitories also having hot showers for the students, just like it is in the tourist lodges nearby. “Mama Janet is highly respected in our community, where she is considered to be a mother to all our children due to her benevolence,” Mokita said. “She is currently sponsoring the education of over 100 students from this school, who have proceeded to various secondary schools and universities in Kenya.” Head teacher Simon Masake said the school emerged top in Trans Mara West subcounty in the KCPE results, thanks to the good learning conditions created by Janet Martin, and that they look forward to doing even better this year. Masake said the school boasts an electrical fence around it to keep off wild animals from entering the school compound and disrupting classes like in the past. He added that cases of teenage pregnancies among school girls have gone down, since they are confined in the school compound during the learning period. “Our school attendance has improved from 400 to 700 pupils due to what Mama Janet has done to us over the years. Our boys and girls have ample time to concentrate on their studies, since back at home our boys were given tasks to take care of their family livestock, while girls are weighed down with household chores, affecting their performance,” Masake said. The School Parents Teachers Association chairman John Morinte, a former pupil of the school, said during his time, they used to attend school irregularly, sometimes twice or thrice a week, due to the long distances they had to cover to school and the hunger pangs they had to persevere with before going back home in the evening. Jackson Kimanjoi, a third year student at Kenyatta University and among the fully sponsored students, said the pupils will forever be grateful to Mama Janet.