&ldquo;Under the Jubilee government no Kenyan will die of hunger. Unga will be below Sh90,&rdquo; thus William Ruto, when the Jubilee Coalition was launched on February 3, 2013.Perhaps intoxicated with the size of the crowds and the feel-good factor when they were on the cusp of clinching an election victory, Ruto was not done yet.A boisterous Ruto went ahead to declare to the world in broad daylight: &ldquo;In five years&rsquo; time we will come back to Kenyans and ask them to judge us on the basis of our performance and not vitendawili [this was an obvious dig at opposition chief Raila Odinga, who is fond of speaking in riddles to make a point]. There will be no politicians in the Jubilee government but Kenyans of integrity who will digitally transform Kenya. Sisi ni wa kusema na kutenda (we are people of both word and action.&rdquo;RUTO&rsquo;S UNGA &lsquo;PROPHECY&rsquo; COMES HOME TO ROOSTHow time flies! Four years and two months since the Ruto Jubilee &ldquo;prophesy&rdquo;, the jury is still out (depending on who you ask) as to the overall performance of the Jubilee government. But there is at least one area where all are agreed. There is one thing that will tip the balance in the forthcoming elections.Forget about the grandiose SGR and other large infrastructural projects. Forget too the promise of creating the post of some omnipotent Chief Minister or whatever that NASA is talking about. The fact of the matter is that the 2017 election will be won or lost on the simple reason of unga: Maize flour.Like a bad disease that hides then comes back to strike at an inopportune time, Ruto&rsquo;s promise on the price of unga will of course be used against him &ndash; relentlessly. Matters are not helped by the fact that, as we speak, the price is twice what Ruto promised Kenyans.Call Kenyans petty but this issue of maize flour is close to the hearts of all people. If the Jubilee government does not manage its narrative well, then they will be sent packing by the electorate. Knowing NASA lynchpin Raila and his mastery of rhetoric and riddles, I am foreseeing a very tough battle ahead for President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy Ruto.To begin with, ugali is the staple food of the majority of Kenyans. Anything touching on its price is sure to stoke the anger of an already disgruntled public. And in this case it is not just touching, someone has actually messed with the price. Totally. Many Kenyans now agree that the price of the white stuff is way through the roof. In other words, we are in a food crisis.It is instructive to note that, apart from unga, the prices of other basic commodities have also risen to the stratosphere, leaving Kenyans to improvise like mad. To show the seriousness of the matter, President Kenyatta called for a special sitting of Parliament to discuss ways in which the price of the commodity could be reduced.It was noteworthy that the legislators were divided on the Head of State&rsquo;s move. Kiharu MP Irungu Kang&rsquo;ata was quoted in a section of the press saying the decision to introduce the supplementary budget was good, but a long-term solution needed to be devised.On his part, Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi said the introduction of the supplementary budget had come too late and could just be a scheme by the government to hoodwink Kenyans that it was doing something.&ldquo;The President is talking about the high cost of living as if he has been living outside this country; this only means that he is not in touch with the reality Kenyans are facing,&rdquo; Wandayi declaimed.Wandayi might have a point, because the supplementary budget was being introduced when the ink had hardly dried on the original national Budget, presented before the House by Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich.HOLD JUBILEE&rsquo;S FEET TO THE FIRE AND DEMAND ANSWERSIt is at this point that those interested in knowing the truth should hold the government&rsquo;s feet to the fire and demand answers. This is what Rotich told the House when he appeared there for the Budget presentation: &ldquo;Mr Speaker, to enable the country to maintain adequate food reserves and ensure productivity of our lands, I have allocated KSh1.3 billion for the strategic grain reserves; and KSh0.1 billion for mechanization of agriculture. To diversify our agriculture, I have allocated KSh0.1 billion for the revival of the pyrethrum sector, and for the miraa farmers, I have set aside KSh1 billion. To enhance service delivery in the lands subsector, I have set aside KSh1.6 billion for Issuance of Title Deeds; and KSh0.9 billion for Digitization of Land Registries.&rdquo;THE OTHER SGR &ndash; THE GRAIN RESERVEAccording to analyst Gabriel Oguda, the strategic grain reserve, commonly referred to as the emergency food reserves or food security reserves, is a government measure to cushion Kenyans from the adverse effects of hunger. What this means is that to ensure Kenyans do not starve to death, every year the government allocates money to the NCPB to buy cereals that they will store, on the government's behalf, and which can only be used in times of a food crisis.&ldquo;The NCPB, therefore, procures, stores and maintains a strategic grain reserve stock of up to four million bags (to be upgraded to 8 million bags) on behalf of the government to be used for food security. Upon instructions from the government, the NCPB is required to turn over the SGR stock through releases to commercial outlets and/or to social functions,&rdquo; he says.According to Oguda, in June 2016, Parliament's Public Investment Committee summoned the National Cereals and Produce Board Managing Director, Newton Keter, to explain to Kenyans why the price of maize flour was threatening to blow the roof off.&ldquo;The NCPB Managing Director told them, in no uncertain terms, that the SGR Trustees, among them the principal secretaries in the ministries of Agriculture, Treasury, Interior and Special Programmes, had delayed to order sales of the SGR maize from their silos, and that some of the maize had stayed there for over eight (8) years, leading to contamination,&rdquo; he says.Which now brings me to the question: Shouldn&rsquo;t we ask the hard questions of these mandarins we entrusted with ensuring Kenyans slept with extended bellies as a result of good feeding but ended up going hungry and their tummies distended?I know I am tilting at windmills, as it were, for I can bet my right foot that no action will be taken against these fat cats.THE DROUGHT IS TO BLAME, SAYS DUALEWhat I find truly amusing is that even as the food prices escalate, Jubilee and its supporters are seeing nothing wrong. In a new narrative, which I read somewhere Leader of Majority Aden Duale champions, the current shortages are caused by prolonged drought and the government was not responsible.Duale feels that the government is being unfairly blamed and hastens to add that an emergency fund will soon be established to mitigate the effects. Those of us who follow things keenly are still wondering where the El Nino funds set aside a year or two ago went. But this being Kenya, we suffer collective amnesia and hope that this promised fund will be the miracle wand to solve the current food crisis.However, it gets to the bizarre when government apparatchiks, instead of addressing the burning issue, turn their guns on opposition leader Raila. Social media is awash with desperate defenders of the Jubilee faith digging into past newspaper articles in a bid to paint Raila in bad light over this issue. What they are failing to see is this: Jubilee is the government in power and, just as they promised those four years ago, they should give Kenyans affordable food.Many years ago when I covered Parliament, then Butere MP Martin Shikuku (now deceased) would often get enraged by Kanu legislators who would push through any agenda by the government, even if it was going to hurt the public. In exasperation, Shikuku would ask them: Do you think when the price of unga or sugar goes up it will affect opposition supporters only? Do your supporters have a special purchasing card which gives them bargain prices in the shops? Kazi yenu ni kuimba tu &lsquo;Ayeeee&rsquo;!&rdquo;As they say history repeats itself and we are seeing a similar trend, although this time now it is the so-called government bloggers who have worn blinkers and are defending the government at all costs.As a parting shot, how comes nobody talks about the Galana Kulalau project? On its launch, we were told this would be the cure-all for all our food problems, but I am yet to hear anything much from it. Or maybe I am just being a tad too pessimistic?