During President Uhuru Kenyatta's recent trips to London and Beijing, Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Willy Bett postponed press conferences for three consecutive days. He wanted to brief the media on the Mexico maize saga. After every postponement, his team promised the media the President would make a major announcement the following day. Corridors reliably learnt the press conferences and any other official communication from the government had been cancelled until after the President's return. The postponements followed contradictory statements from government officials on the Mexico maize, which gave the Opposition enough fodder to roundly criticise the government. But when the authorities reduced the price of unga to Sh90 per 2kg bag, they could not wait to announce the new price, irrespective of the consequences. Corridors has yet to identify the all-powerful person who issued orders to stop all senior government officials' communications to the public concerning the maize drama.*****Rogue elements of the online teams across the political divide have dared each other to hack the personal documents tabled by President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA leader Raila Odinga at the Independent Electoral Boundaries Commission and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. The documents are presumably stored super securely. Wannabe hackers and wags on the teams say the other side's leader's documents should be made public since they are public officers. Are they tempting fate? World-class hackers Anonymous, as well as others in China, Russia and North Korea, might become interested.***** Is Education CS Fred Matiang'i aware Parklands Arya Girls' School demands all former students wear school uniforms when going for their certificates! Or is he still busy defending the government of the day at grassroots! A parent at the school, who had accompanied her daughter to collect her school documents, was surprised when they were stopped at the gate and the watchman reminded them of the new rule. The watchman alleged the alumni have the habit of putting on 'indecent clothes', hence the new rule by the Parklands principal.*****An aide to the Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero was complaining in a WhatsApp group that the incumbent's inner team has made it hard for Kenyans and other people on the team as well as the county government to access him. The official was speaking in response to Mike Sonko's bold campaigns. He said, unlike Sonko, whom the people can freely share ideas with and push an agenda, the officials around the governor have crowded him in a such a way that even if things go the wrong way, Kidero will never be told &ndash; or know.