Former champions General Service Unit unbeaten run come under severe test this morning when they cross swords with Kenya Defence Forces during the third leg of Kenya Volleyball Federation national league at the Polytechnic grounds, Eldoret.KDF denied the 2015 champions a chance to proceed to the semi-final of the inaugural Nairobi Water Chairman&rsquo;s Cup last month at Ndakaini Stadium in Murang&rsquo;a County.GSU coach Gideon Tarus noted open tournament result will count for nothing and they will be out to protect their unbeaten record and bag all available nine points.GSU are at the summit of the standing with 11 points, two ahead of second placed Co-op Bank. &ldquo;KDF defeated us during the Chairman&rsquo;s Cup and we are keen to turn tables on them. We have trained well and we will be seeking to protect our unbeaten record. We will take our matches seriously and hopeful, the results will come our way,&rdquo; said Tarus, the former national men&rsquo;s team assistant coach.He added: &ldquo;The stakes are high this season as far as which team will make the play-off slot and the earlier you position yourself the better. We are determined to make the cut and go all the way and reclaim the national trophy.&rdquo;GSU will then battle Mt Kenya University before facing Administration Police in their last match of the day. KDF on other hand, are placed fourth on the standing with six points, from three matches. They have lost one and won two and team manager Alfred Ruto believes his side has what it takes to pick from where they left.Ruto said: &ldquo;Of course it is on record that we won against them and it doesn&rsquo;t matter whether it was a tournament or not. The feat gives us the morale going into tomorrow&rsquo;s match and I believe we are up to the task.&rdquo;KDF will then play fast-improving Mombasa Prisons. Other matches on card will see Vihiga County play Nairobi Water, Forest Rangers take on Kenya Ports Authority and champions Kenya Prisons confront Mombasa counterparts. In other matches, Co-op Bank battle Western Prisons, AP lock horns with Western Prisons before KPA wrap up the day with a tie against the bankers. In women&rsquo;s league, leaders KCB face Kenya Prisons, champions Kenya Pipeline entertain Nairobi Water before they play MKU.Nairobi Water will then face-off with MKU.