I stand ready to drop my last sweat, and commit my last breath to the final liberation of Kenya.This ticket has come at a defining moment for our country. Our economy is in turmoil.The cost of living is beyond reach for millions of our citizens; from the price of unga, bread and milk, to bus fare to rent and paraffin, the cost of everything has gone through the roof.Wages have fallen behind prices. Unemployment is at an all-time high.Our education is failing our children instead of propelling them to the next level.We must rid this country of tribalism. We must kill corruption before it kills our country. We must make Kenyans pull together as one people in one nation. We cannot continue being two or more nations in one. We must empower communities, instead of weakening and stealing from them. We must contain our appetite for borrowing and spending.Kenya needs and Kenya deserves a caring and responsible leadership that knows we cannot live as if we are the last generation on this land. We must leave something behind for our children. As things stand today, the only thing we are sure of transferring to our children is a huge national debt.We must protect, safeguard and strengthen devolution because it is working for our people. ODM has a broad reformist agenda. It has always been our position that to realize that agenda, we have to form broad alliances with like-minded leaders, organisations and political parties. This will enable us to capture State power and put Kenya back on track.I therefore humbly accept the mandate that the party has granted me to proceed and cement alliances with the Wiper Democratic Movement-Kenya, Ford Kenya, Amani National Congress and Chama Cha Mashinani in my capacity as the joint Opposition candidate.I pledge to work diligently with my worthy colleagues in the National Super Alliance, Hon Stephen Kalonzo Musyoka, Sen Moses Masika Wetang&rsquo;ula, Rt Hon Wycliffe Musalia Mudavadi and HE Governor Isaac Rutto to deliver victory in August.Kenyans need and deserve our victory.We must defeat the forces of impunity, the forces of greed and the status quo that have roamed our land since Independence and that have gotten stronger these past four years.To this end, and with the mandate granted today, I intend to embark on a new era of politics of honour, integrity, decency and honesty.Long live ODM. Long live Kenya.