State-owned Youth Enterprise Development Fund says it will lower the interest on most priced loan to six from eight per cent in July to encourage increased borrowing by youth-owned enterprises. Fund's chairman Ronald Osumba said the introduction of interest caps on commercial is not likely to affect the uptake of YEDF loans. &ldquo;Most of our loans are interest free,&rdquo; Osumba said in an email to the Star. &ldquo;The only loan product (Vuka) that attracts interest is at eight per cent, which is by far cheaper than the current commercial bank rates. The YEDF is reducing the interest on this product to six per cent beginning July.&rdquo; The fund's strategy to recover outstanding loans has borne fruit, he said, with the rate at about 80 per cent this year compared to 75 per cent last year. &ldquo;We continue to put in mechanisms to improve repayment by closely monitoring (the performance) of the loans,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;We also do loan rescheduling to allow the youths with genuine reason of nonpayment to reorganise themselves and their businesses.&rdquo;Other loan recovery measures are enhanced capacity building to guarantee the success of youth-owned enterprise, and use of local administration, leaders and parents of the youth to persuade them to pay. The parastatal also use peer pressure in cases of co-guaranteeing for group loans and sensitisation of the youth on the importance of loan repayment.The Treasury has allocated an additional Sh600 million to the fund in the 2017-2018 financial year that start in July.To further increase uptake of loans, the fund is set to launch a start-up loan programme on July 1 this year which will be devolved to the counties."The fund will allocate Sh250 million to each county which can be accessed at our regional offices across the country," Osumba said last week during launch of a countrywide youth peace forum at the Agricultural show grounds in Nakuru town.According to the latest report from the fund, it has disbursed Sh12 billion since its inception in 2006 to slightly over 800,000 youths across the country. This is approximately Sh1.2 billion annually.Nairobi, Kiambu and Nakuru received the lion's share of the Sh12 billion, with each getting between Sh700 million to Sh2.3 billion.Last year, YEDF unveiled a Rapid Results Initiative to help them in recovering Sh300 million of lent out loans in 100 days. They managed to collect a total of Sh215 million between August, 15 and November 22, 2016.