The Carnivore Grounds, Nairobi, was the place to be on Sunday afternoon, the 30th of April to commemorate the International Jazz Day. The day which celebrates the role of jazz music in promoting freedom, creativity, and intercultural dialogue by uniting people globally, was made possible through the Safaricom International Jazz Festival. The concert dubbed the Kenyan Jazz All Stars Edition featured a line-up that offered world class performances. The festival, which has become one of Kenya's biggest events, saw the usual massive crowd attendance and energy.  Jazz fans at the festival   Jazz enthusiasts  The show kicked off at 2 pm with performances from the best bands and artists from Kenya. Artists who performed include Gogosimo band, Juma Tutu, Ghetto Classics, Chris Bittok, Mwai & the Truth and Afrosync.  Ghetto Classics Performing at the Safaricom International Jazz Festival   Mwai & the Truth Band on stage  Shamsi Music performed one of their fan's favorite Kikuyu song "Murata", while Kavutha Mwanzia joined her husband Jacob Asiyo on stage to perform "One Day".  Shamsi Music on stage   Guitarist Immanuel Mohol of Shamsi Music   Kavutha Mwanzia-Asiyo Performing with Shamsi Music at the Safaricom International Jazz Festival   Jacob Asiyo on performing  Edward Parseen together with The Different Faces band offered a powerful display of smooth jazz with an African sound.  Chris Bittok and Edward Parseen performing  Eddie Grey was spectacular on his guitar offering his fans quite a show.  Eddie Grey Performing at the Safaricom International Jazz Festival Kenyan trio Nairobi Horns Project, who performed last, brought the house down with their jazz renditions of Kenyan hits. When they were done, they were joined on stage by all other acts to deliver a final jam session.  Nairobi Horns Project performing  Chants of "We want more" could be heard from the unsatisfied crowd when the show was all over. Bob Collymore handed the Ghetto Classics a cheque worth 17 million from proceeds collected from the 2016/2017 Safaricom International Jazz Festival ticket sales.  Bob Collymore hands the Ghetto Classics a cheque worth 17 million Photo Credit: EUGENE OKUMU