Kanbis Sports Club welcome Stray Lions as the Nairobi Provincial Cricket Association (NPCA) league enter 11th round at Eastleigh High School tomorrow. Both teams have been dominant so far in NPCA 2017 season and are yet to lose. While Stray Lions have been pushed hard in a number of their 10 wins, Kanbis have had easy run. Apart from their match against Swamibapa which they won resoundingly, today’s match could be the toughest fixture so far for the defending champions. “This will be a tough one. We expect Stray Lions to come hard at us because of what is at stake. Whoever wins stand a big chance to win the league and that is why no team will take any with seven round of matches to go,” Kanbis skipper Rajesh Bhudia said. The home team will bank heavily on their batting led by Rakep Patel to deliver victory. Rakep’s form has been unmatched. And with five centuries under their name so far, Stray Lions bowling attack should be wary of the national team skipper who has made some of the league top bowlers look ordinary. It will be interesting to see how Rakep and company—including Dhiren Gondaria, Narendra Kalyan and Ramesh Mepani—will handle the Stray Lions’ bowling that has bagged all the wickets that have come their way. Nikhil Date, Shem Obado and Hiren Varaiya have played key role in Stray Lions bowling. They will also bank on experienced batsman Collins Obuya to get past the home team. Obuya is currently enjoying good form both local and internationally. Manoj Sai is yet to score big in his three matches and Stray Lions fans expect him to finally off load his runs in this crucial match. The other key batsmen in the side are opener Abraham Vadada and off form Prashant Srinivas. On paper, Kanbis’ immense experience and unbeatable aura at home mean that they will start off as favourites.  Tomorrow’s fixtures Kanbis v Stray Lions (Eastleigh High School) Obuya Academy v Swamibapa (Sir Ali) Sikh Union Nairobi v Cutchi Leva (Sikh Union, Nairobi) Nairobi Gymkhana v Kongonis (Nairobi Gymkhana) Ruaraka v Sir Ali (Ruaraka)