At least 102 people have been killed by police in the aftermath of the August 8 and October 26 polls. Data collated by The Star and human rights organisations shows 37 people were killed in three days of unrest after the declaration of August presidential results. The organisations are Kenya Human Right Commission, Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International. Read: Kenya post-election protests: Police killed 12, used excessive force - HRW Also read: 24 people have died in police hands since August 8, KNCHR says Fifty people were killed in the run up to the October 26 re-run, that was to primarily be between President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA chief Raila Odinga, and 15 after that process. Hundreds are nursing bullet and other injuries that resulted from police beatings during their operations to end demonstrations in Opposition strongholds. On October 16 police killed three people in Bondo and one in Kisumu as they battled protesters. On October 26 and 27, two people were killed in Athi River and Kawangware, one in Migori, four in Kisumu and two in Bungoma. Human rights organisations have condemned police for heavy-handedness and abuse of the policing code that led to deaths and injuries. "PUNITIVE POLICING" In a statement on Monday, Amnesty International said heavily armed police are using unlawful force against protesters and bystanders in Kisumu in a deliberate campaign to punish inhabitants for continuing to protest. "In Kisumu, the evidence we gathered paints a grim picture of police shooting, aggressively assaulting, and even breaking into the homes of people suspected to be protesters; but also those who happen to be in the vicinity of protests," said Justus Nyang'aya, head of Amnesty International Kenya. "People have been seriously injured or shot while buying food in the market, walking home from school or resting in their homes, he added, describing how two men were fatally shot by police in Kisumu on the day of the repeat election. "What we are witnessing appears to be punitive policing; a blatant attempt to intimidate and punish residents in the opposition stronghold."  Another man died of injuries that suggest he was badly beaten with a large blunt object but the circumstances of his death remain unknown. Related: Migori night of terror: Police on the spot after man killed, many shot But IG Joseph Boinnet has denied use of excessive force in quelling anti-poll protests in Opposition strongholds despite reports on the contrary.  Anti-riot police attempt to disperse protesters in Kawangware slums in Nairobi, October 28, 2017. /REUTERS Speaking to journalists in Nairobi during the presidential rerun on Thursday, he said police are managing security in counties facing challenges. "Some goons are preventing the election but we are managing it according to the law. We don't use excessive force on our people," he said. On October 28, Boinnet said four people had been shot dead by anti-riot police officers during demonstrations against the IEBC and the election. He said 13 civilians were also injured and that a total of 86 people arrested for various electoral and public order offenses. More on this: Boinnet denies use of excessive force to disperse Raila supporters Also read: Four killed by police, 86 arrested over election - Boinnet On 26 October, the organisation said a community worker and activist was fatally shot in the slum area of Mathare North in Nairobi, with evidence linking the killing to police. Officers have not commented on this. "FIREARMS MUST NEVER BE USED" Amnesty spoke to seven other people who were recovering after being shot b police in Kisumu, including a 16-year-old boy. It said most cases appear to be the result of police shooting at random at people considered demonstrators. The seven, the lobby group said, were attacked and beaten by police in Kisumu between October 24 and 27. Four of these incidents occurred at homes after police burst in "The indiscriminate use of live ammunition against protesters must stop immediately. Firearms must never be used to disperse crowds and police officers must be given clear instructions from their superiors to only use methods allowed by both Kenyan and international law," Nyang'aya said. He said all the cases of intentional beatings amount to a violation of the rights of the individuals. "The failure of the police to disclose clear information on fatal shootings is deeply concerning. All shooting incidents should be immediately investigated by the Independent Policing Oversight Authority," he recommended. "If the actions of police are to be reined in and brought in line with internationally recognised policing guidelines, it is essential that the perpetrators of such violations - and those who may have command responsibility for them - are brought to justice."  Anti-riot police officers arrest a NASA coalition protester outside the IEBC office along University Way in Nairobi during demonstrations against IEBC, October 2, 2017. /JACK OWUOR On october 16, police disputed a report that said officers killed at least 33 people during post-election protests in various parts of the country. The 37-page report by Amnesty International is titled 'Kill Those Criminals: Security Forces' Violation in Kenya'  Amnesty said the deaths were caused by bullets fired by police who moved in to contain unrest that sporadically erupted mainly in NASA strongholds. Most of the deaths were reported in slum areas including Kawangware, Kibera, Mathare North and parts of Nyanza.  More on this: Police dispute Amnesty report detailing 33 post-election killings