Deputy President has hit out at Raila Odinga saying his 'bad behavior' frustrated the coalition government following the 2007/8 post election violence. Ruto said instead of Raila helping President Kibaki deliver on his agenda, he became so petty in demands including red carpet. Ruto was responding to opposition leader's remarks that he was the one who came up with the idea of a coalition government in the Koffi Anan lead mediation talks. Read:Ruto was nusu mkate mastermind, no Al Ghurair and OT-Morpho, says Raila "Ni kweli mimi nilusaidia ukapata coalition government ya 2007. Lakini tabia yako mbaya mbadala ya kufanya kazi ukaanza kuhangaisha mzee Kibaki hadi akashindwa kutekeleza majukumu yake," he said. Ruto said because the NASA flag bearer has seen Uhuru has not room for a coalition government, that is why he has embarked on trips abroad to push for this agenda. "You can travel to any place you so wish, be it UK or Paris, but a coalition government will not happen," Ruto said. Ruto said it is shameful for Raila to tease the other presidential candidates who have been included on the ballot calling them Jubilee stooges and yet he is running abroad to seek sympathy from foreigners on Kenyan matters. "It is better to be a Jubilee stooge than a stooge to foreigners. This man instead of campaigning he has put a lot of demands compounded with demos until he is confused himself," He said. Ruto appealed to President Uhuru Kenyatta to hasten and sign the amendments to the elections act before the forthcoming election. Ruto said the laws have sealed all the loopholes that Raila might use to frustrate the government through courts after the election. He said all other avenues had been sealed before the August election but unfortunately they did not know there was a loophole in the court. We have now done police marking in the courts, if he thinks he will seek redress in the courts after the election, we are very sorry for him, Ruto said. Ruto said Kenya is not an animal farm where the NASA leader can choose to do things how he wishes but a country governed by the rule of law. It is not a choice whether you participate in the election or not, you have no option let us meet on the ballot come October 26, Ruto said.