More divers on Saturday joined the rescue team to search for the three bodies of people who perished after a helicopter crashed into Lake Nakuru a week ago. The divers from Kenya Navy joined the team to recover three bodies and a fuselage of the plane crash. Another team drawn from the Department of Geology from Nairobi with more machine to assist in detecting, locating metals was also deployed. A special team of 10 divers from Mombasa under the umbrella of Sonko Rescue Team also joined the teams on ground after the county government requested for their services. “We have been involved in water rescue operations in Tanzania, Kenya, Madagascar and Seychelles hence optimistic that with our support, we will be able to comb the waters and retrieve the remaining bodies,” said Owala one of the divers. Some members of the team include Mohamed Nahid, Khamis Namoya, Mohamed Abdul-haq and Juma Omar. Other teams in the rescue operation include National Police Service, Kenya Wildlife Service, Kenya Red Cross Society, Naivasha Divers among others. Governor Lee Kinyanjui told journalists the additional divers and the sophisticated equipment that arrived at the Lake on Saturday will boost and speed up the recovery exercise. “We have been working in solidarity with the families of the victims, ensured proper counseling has been given out and the entire investigative team is working around the clock to unearth the cause of the plane crash,” Kinyanjui said. The occupants were Nakuru Sanator Susan Kihika's bloggers Sam Gitau, John Mapozi and Antony Kipyegon. The others are pilot Apolo Malowa and a lady friend, Veronica Muthoni. Malowa and Kipyegon's bodies have been retrieved and positively identified by their families. Read: Senator Susan Kihika's officials feared dead in Lake Nakuru chopper crash Also read:Chopper crash: Captain Apollo Malowa's body retrieved from Lake Nakuru National Disaster Management Unity Deputy Director Pius Masai coordinating the multi-agency operation at the Lake said the main challenge in the recovery exercise includes poor visibility in the lake due to dirty water. “Poor visibility due to dirty water, wide search area, presence of wildlife animals and heavy rains in the area are the main challenges the rescue team is facing in the exercise," he said. Masaai further appealed to the affected families to remain calm as all efforts are being done to retrieve the remaining bodies. The families of the victims have been camping at the lake shores everyday braving the scorching sun and sometimes heavy rains for the last eight days as the divers comb into the waters hoping the bodies will be retrieved. Director and chief investigator of accidents Martyn Lunani said that family members will be notified about the ongoing search. “We will do the best to ensure all investigations into the crash are concluded and a comprehensive report will be made available also,” said Lunani. The chopper reportedly heading to Narok for Jubilee campaigns crashed shortly after taking off from Jarika hotel on Saturday last week.