At least three people were reported shot dead in Kisumu as residents engaged police in running battles and boycotted yesterday’s presidential rerun. Voting failed to take off in many places. IEBC said polling would be rescheduled to Saturday. Both Chrispine Ochieng from Nyalenda and George Odhiambo from Mamboleo were shot in the groin, witnesses said. Odhiambo died of massive blood loss. Two other deaths were reported by witnesses but names and details were not immediately available. Benard Osiako, 23, said he was on his way home when a bullet grazed his shoulder. Duncan Baraza, 25, was beaten in his home. His mother Mildred Agol said police officers broke their windows in Nyalenda and tried to throw in a tear gas cannister. “We had a little baby. My son opened the door and he was beaten up,” she told the star. Their neighbour, Joyce Omollo, said she was also beaten. Kisumu residents heeded NASA leader Raila Odinga’s boycott call. Polling stations that were supposed to opened at 6am remained closed. IEBC officials were nowhere to be seen. In Kisumu East constituency, voting materials were still at the constituency tallying centre. None was taken to the 140 polling centres. Presiding officers kept off for fear of their lives. Those present were also fearful. In Kisumu West constituency, election materials had not been dispatched to polling stations. Returning officer Dennis Obara said nothing was going on in the constituency. Neither voters nor election officials turned up, he said. Obara said they were unable to transfer election materials to the Maseno School tallying centre.  “We have just been sitting here. We have been unable to transport voting materials. People have not turned up to vote,” he said. In Kisumu Central constituency, voting materials, which had been in a warehouse for three days, arrived at Lions High School tallying center early yesterday. Obara said there were no vehicles to transport them as people feared for their safety. By noon, most roads were still blocked and fires had been lit on major streets. Police and protestors battled in Kondele. At Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Refferal Hospital, more than five patients were admitted.