The number of unvaccinated children in Kenya has nearly doubled this year.  There are now 265,523 unvaccinated children under one year, compared to 157,584 last year, ministry of health records show.  Medics say this accumulation exposes the population to vaccine preventable diseases, such as the highly infectious and deadly measles, tetanus and polio.  The dip has also pushed down Kenya's national immunisation coverage rates from 84.6 per cent to 68 per cent.  This is way below the global vaccine coverage of 86 per cent.  The ministry attributes this to the ongoing nurses strike.  Most affected are children in the remote northern Kenya, where polio, tetanus and other highly infectious diseases have broken out in the past.  “In these regions, there are cohorts of children who are susceptible to infections which can result in an outbreak. If there is an outbreak, they are likely to be wiped out,” Health Cabinet Secretary Dr Cleopa Mailu said.  The ministry last week launched a campaign to immunise about 300,000 kids who have missed out on the life-saving vaccines.  The programme will be rolled out in Turkana, Mandera, Marsabit, Garissa, Samburu, Isiolo, Wajir, Tana River, West Pokot, Baringo and Lamu.  “Inadequate health service provision in public health facilities has contributed greatly to the deteriorating health situation of children in the country, exposing them to preventable diseases and even death,” Unicef said in a statement.  According to the World Health Organisation, 60,000 Kenyan children below one year also do not receive the all-essential DTP vaccine which protects kids against diphtheria, tetanus and whooping cough.  This is considered one of the most basic vaccination recommended by WHO and it's the first one children get.  Dr Mailu said they will partner with Unicef, Amref and the Kenya Red Cross to try and bridge the gap.  The ministry also reported further falling health indicators, largely as a result of the nurses strike.  Skilled care during pregnancy has declined by 44 per cent while deliveries in health facilities has reduced from 85,000 to 57,000.  More women, especially those from poor households, are delivering at home with some of them seeking emergency care very late, and resulting in deaths of mothers and the new-borns.  Isiolo and Tana River are among the most affected counties with up to 80 per cent decline in institutional deliveries. Over 50 per cent of health facilities in arid and semi-arid counties are closed due to the nurses’ industrial action, the ministry said. The strike is now in its fifth month, although council of governor says about 60 per cent of nurses have resumed work following threats to sack them.  