Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos has softened his opposition to the construction of Sh63 billion Arror and Kimwarer dams. He had initially said public participation was not properly carried out. But speaking after a meeting with county commissioner Fredrick Ndambuki on Monday, Tolgos said they have raised their concerns with the Kerio Valley Development Authority. “We have asked KVDA to go back to the people and carry out proper public participation,” he said. Tolgos said KVDA has assured them all compensation issues will be resolved before construction begins. The project has received strong opposition from residents, who fear they might not be compensated for their land.  KVDA managing director David Kimosop said an evaluation will be carried out to determine how the compensation will be done. He attributed fears by the locals to failure by the government to compensate those in Kapsowar, where Chebara Dam was built. Kimosop said international financial corporation standards will be followed to ensure fair compensation. No one will be negatively affected, he said.  The authority is establishing the number of families that will be affected by the projects, Kimosop said. KVDA chairman Sam Kona said the authority will find alternative land for the families.  He said the deal was agreed on after it was established that some evictees do not buy land after they receive payouts. “All leaders are in support of the implementation of the dams. Opposition had arisen from information gaps,” Kona said.  Last month, the governor and Kimosop clashed over the project. Kimosop wrote to Tolgos asking him to stop undermining the projects.  Tolgos had criticised the KVDA for not consulting all stakeholders.  Kimosop asked Tolgos to name leaders or groups that had been left out. The county boss had also accused the authority of scheming to forcibly take over private land, but Kimosop denied this.  The CEO said he was unaware of plans for compulsory acquisition of land. He said due process is being followed.