NASA will not be allowed to operate after it was transformed into a national resistance movement, National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale said yesterday. He said NASA leaders shot themselves in the foot the moment Raila Odinga withdrew on October 10 from yesterday’s repeat presidential race. Duale spoke at the Garissa National Library Services polling station, where he cast his vote. “Having changed from a political party to a resistance movement, NASA joined the ranks of Mungiki and al Shabaab, among others. The Constitution does recognise armed groupings and thus [it has] no place in Kenya,” the Garissa Township MP said. “For one to be President of this country, citizens must vote for you. There is no shortcut to this process.” Duale said the only way one can ascend to a political seat is through the ballot, not some form of resistance. The Supreme Court ruling on September 1 gave Kenyans another chance to elect their President, he said. “Kenyans want to move on. We want to be through with the election today so we can start to build the nation. We have been held hostage for the past two months,” Duale said On Wednesday, Raila said NASA has evolved into a resistance movement and starting today will defy an “illegitimate government and its organs”.  He urged his supporters to boycott yesterday’s presidential poll.  “We will convene and agree on a way to ensure that a fresh free and fair election is organised within 90 days. We call upon our supporters not to vote and to convince their neighbours not to take part in the poll because it is a Jubilee election,” Raila said. Raila also said the people should take instructions to boycott newspapers, TV stations, products and services that benefit the government and its supporters. Meanwhile, voting in most polling stations within Garissa town started slowly but picked up as the day progressed. Duale expressed confidence turnout will exceed 55 per cent. There were reports that heavy rains pounding parts of Fafi and Ijara constituencies delayed the start of voting.  Duale urged IEBC to use helicopters to transport and pick voting materials to and from inaccessible areas. Garissa has 163,350 registered voters and 382 polling centres.  