The grounds on which the Supreme Court annulled the Presidential results of August 8 were essentially two. One is that the election was not conducted in accordance with the Constitution, which clearly stipulates how the votes cast should be recorded, counted, tallied and announced. The whole process should be simple, accurate, transparent and accountable. The second is that the laws governing the carrying out of the election process regarding the responsibilities of the Electoral Commission and the duties of its officials were largely ignored, leading to a wide range of malpractices that rendered the results nugatory. The Supreme Court, therefore, ordered that the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission conducts a fresh presidential election, which has now been scheduled for October 26, which must follow the Constitution and laws that govern such election. As things stand, it looks as if the IEBC will not meet the deadline of undertaking the necessary reforms, nor will it have sent home those officials most responsible for messing up the August 8 election. Attempts by chairman Wafula Chebukati seem to have hit the wall, with CEO Ezra Chiloba, openly defying the Commission’s orders for him to quit and staying put simply to carry out some questionable procurement of goods and services. The procurement of the services of OT-Morpho of France has already raised eyebrows when the estimated costs by the IEBC secretariat of Sh800 million as raised by the Treasury mandarins to Sh2.5 billion. Who is going to pocket the difference? Western ambassadors in Nairobi, so eager to “monitor” elections in this country, are noticeable by keeping quiet on this issue. They were equally noticeable when they declined to condemn the assassination of Chris Msando, unashamedly likening it to “the usual” electoral violence “typical” of such times in Kenya. In the meantime, as much as NASA has continued to point out the iniquities in the IEBC, so has Jubilee been enthusiastic to defend the discredited senior officers in that very important institution, much to the amazement of men and women of good will in our republic. No wonder NASA has come to the logical conclusion that without necessary reforms undertaken by the electoral commission in line with the Supreme Court ruling, there will be no presidential election in Kenya. And that may have grievous consequences to the state of governance in this country since Uhuru Kenyatta is likely pretend to run alone or simply be declared by the IEBC as the unopposed winner. With the electoral laws already amended by Parliament, Uhuru will then be sworn in by any judge, most likely Justice Jackton Boma Ojwang’ or Justice Njoki Ndung’u, as President. That, I think, is the most likely scenario. But what follows after that? Whether we like it or not, Uhuru will be cheered by his supporters, while the rest of Kenyans, most understandably the majority, will regard his presidency as illegitimate. If there are any African governments that will recognise the election of Uhuru as President, they will do so more out of mere formality than out of sincere support. For Uhuru’s stay in office to be worth it, he and Deputy President William Ruto will then engage in an aggressive campaign at the African Union asserting the need for political stability in the region, while portraying NASA as out of step with the “needs” of the African people for peace and stability. The Western ambassadors in Nairobi will, no doubt, mount another offensive on behalf of Uhuru, appealing for peace and calmness in a situation where a lawless regime will have imposed itself on the Kenyan people in complete contravention of the highest court of justice in our republic. We must not allow both to succeed in their ill-conceived missions. The community of nations must not allow an illegality to be regarded as a fait acompli to be accommodated for the sake of peace. There is no peace anywhere in the world without justice. This can be seen in the hopeless situation in Burundi, where Pierre Nkurunziza has tried to legitimise his illegitimate regime without success. It must also be seen in the Congo, where Kabila has systematically moved the Congolese people from the frying pan into the fire. Uganda, next door, is doing no better, and it is a hopeless example for Uhuru and Ruto to try and emulate should they begin to believe that repression works where people resist being denied their rights. It doesn’t. In the final analysis, Kenyans must learn that our resolve to resist authoritarian rule that the Jubilee regime is imposing on us is what will energise democrats from all over the world to support our struggle. There was a time during the Moi regime when many people believed that President Daniel Moi would be there for ever. In fact, any thought that Moi would be removed from power through the ballot was perceived to be naive if not altogether romantic nonsense. I have been told, not once or twice but umpteenth times, that Raila will never be President of Kenya. Asked to explain why this is so, the answer is always simple: The Kikuyu will not allow him to be President. This has more or less become a dogma, said without any sociological or political proof. The proof is taken to lie in the answer itself, which is meant to be self-evident. A much more honest answer would run something like this in our present context. Raila will not become President because, according to those Kikuyu elites dependent entirely on state power to support their economic interests in a rather selfish and exclusive manner, Raila as President is feared since he will try to introduce some fairness and open wide the door for others to enter state power. Given this fear, these elites are even prepared to rig elections in most blatant methods so as to retain state power. Hence their determination to keep in place a corrupt, discredited, criminal and incompetent IEBC led by Chiloba, which does their bidding. Once Kenyans understand this, then it is easy to draw the political battle lines so that we are prepared to wage a popular struggle of national liberation from the forces of ethnic exclusion and backward authoritarian rule, which is more likely to take us back to the dark days of Moi rule than push us forward where Vision 2030 would like to take us. Once to every man and nation comes a moment to decide. Then it is the brave man who chooses while the coward stands aside. Let us not cowardly be cheated to go into an election that will drive us backwards. With determination, we shall ensure reforms in the IEBC and compliance with Supreme Court decisions before any presidential election is held in this country.