The SRC yesterday absolved itself on the nurses' strike and accused them of paralysing the sector by pushing a "hidden agenda". The Salaries and Remuneration Commission told a National Assembly committee the industrial action is propelled by ulterior motives, not just salaries. Nurses' went on strike on June 5. SRC vice chairman Daniel Oguto told a special committee scrutinising the Supplementary Budget that nurses are keen at crippling heath services in the country to have their independent commission, similar to the Teachers Service Commission, to address their concerns. Ogutu was responding to Samburu North MP Alois Lentoimaga, who sought answers to the prolonged strikes in the health sector. "This animal called job evaluation to harmonise salaries has been talked about for many years, but what we are seeing is pay cuts yet there are strikes by nurses, doctors and lecturers," Lentoimaga said. "The SRC should to explain to us [MPs] about the progress of the job evaluation exercise it has been undertaking." Ogutu, accompanied by four SRC commissioners, told the committee "we are at the tail end" of the exercise. He and his team spoke in defence to their request for more funding for the commission to finish its job evaluation exercise before its six-year term lapses in December. "We wanted to complete the job evaluation and salary harmonisation within 18 months, but it has taken a very long time, since we started the process two years ago. The issue of money is personal and there was no need for us to hurry," Ogutu said. The health workers are pushing for higher salaries and the full implementation of their CBA. The SRC asked the committee to approve the Sh47 million budget request, which is part of their allocated Sh134.6 million contained in the Supplementary Budget Estimates to pay its two consultants. The consultants have been undertaking job evaluation for the disciplined service officers and the universities, tertiary and research institutions staff. The commission disclosed the consultants – Ernst & Young, and the PricewaterhouseCoopers – have completed their assignments and have to be paid by the end of this month as per the signed agreement. The parliamentary committee is scrutinising budgets of various government agencies and ministries in an effort to raise funds for key urgent programmes. The programmes, include the upcoming October 26 fresh presidential poll, drought, free secondary education in January 2018 and social protection programme for the elderly. "These are key programmes the governments intends to fund very soon. The social protection programme seeks to cater for all elderly persons above 70 years despite coming from well of families," Lunga Lunga MP Khatib Mwashetani, a member of the committee said.