President Uhuru Kenyatta has wished KCPE candidates the best their examinations on Tuesday. Uhuru's message came moments before his declaration by the IEBC as president-elect for a second term in office following the October 26 repeat election. This is what he told the candidates: "I would like to start with a word of encouragement for all our candidates about to sit exams. Revision can seem dreary; the exams daunting; and I know that you hope to make your parents and teachers proud.  Don't let any of that discourage you. Pray and prepare, and your ability will carry you through.  This year's class is especially lucky, because you will be the first to enter secondary school under my government's free secondary education programme.  What will matter is your ability and your diligence, not whether you can pay for a place. I wish all of you success in the examinations. Be assured that your parents, teachers and I are proud of you. Best wishes and God bless." The message from Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko read: "To accomplish great things, We must not only act but also dream; not only plan but also believe. May the almighty God grant you wisdom as you sit for your exams. I will you all the best." MATIANG'I SAYS ALL SYSTEMS GO Education CS Fred Matiang’i has assured this year's KCPE candidates that all measures have been put in place so nothing goes wrong. Matiang'i, who visited Githurai Primary School along Thika Road on Monday to supervise rehearsals, urged the candidates to be confident and hopeful. He said the ministry and other stakeholders have their best interests at heart.  "There are so many of us in this society who love you and are spending time to ensure you succeed in your studies." "So continue to work hard and remain focused and do not be distracted by anything. I wish you all the best."  He was with officials including basic education PS Belio Kipsang, Inspector General Joseph Boinnet, KNEC CEO Mercy Karogo and council chairman George Magoha. Some 1,002,922 candidates will sit this year's KCSE exams between Tuesday and Thursday. Matiang'i said material has been dispatched to collection centres countrywide. "As I speak, all sub-county centres across Kenya have received the exams. Every child who was supposed to get the exam will do." On safety, Matiang'i, who is also the acting Interior CS, dismissed fears about the safety of candidates in some regions in light of high political temperatures. He assured candidates nothing will be left to chance regarding their safety and called on leaders from the political divide to put aside their differences and ensure the tests go on smoothly. This was in apparent reference to the violent anti-election protests witnessed in NASA zones. People were killed and property destroyed. "Our security does not lie in the number of people we put on the ground or in the guns. Our security lies in us trusting in ourselves," the minister said. "This is that one national moment when all of us must come together, hold hands, put our children in the middle and move on, ensuring their welfare remains the priority." Related: 44 Naivasha prisoners ready to write KCPE  