Following the collapse of the Sigiri Bridge in Busia county early
this year, the contractor has embarked on building the structure afresh, and in
strict adherence to the conditions of contract and risk management provisions
therein. The project was conceptualised under the Design,
Build and Maintain concept. The tender invitation from Kenya Rural Roads
Authority went out on
September 2014, for which contractors registered by the National Construction Authority
were eligible to bid. An evaluation undertaken by professionals to ensure
value for money in accordance with the Public, Procurement and Disposal Act. The process was purely market-driven to
ensure accountability and transparency. The contract was awarded to the contractor, China Overseas
Engineering Company, on March 5, 2015, for Sh992.5 million. The scope entailed the construction of
approach roads, bridge works, culverts, preliminary and supervisory services. The design and construction period was earmarked
for 18 months while the maintenance period was five years. In a typical design, build and maintain concept, the parties to
the contract are the employer, employer’s representative, the contractor and
the contractor’s representative.  The terms of the contract allow the employer to appoint a representative,
which in the case of this specific project were the general manager (design and construction), represented by a resident engineer whose role is programme monitoring, inspections to
ensure compliance with contract provisions, design checks and certification of
interim payments and the final account.   Typically, the contractor is expected to undertake the project
design, construct and maintain the works after commissioning. A design, build
and maintain contract runs on the principle of single point responsibility. It is thus the contractor’s sole mandate to carry out and complete all the works described in the
contract. In addition, the contractor is also responsible for default of his
sub-contractors, setting out the works, setting up a quality assurance system,
protection of the environment, preparation of progress reports and ensuring
security on site. Significant to note is the fact that any resultant liability on
such projects lies with the contractor until the same is handed over to the
implementing authority or employer, in this case Kerra. According to a technical report
on the Collapse of the Mid-span of the Sigiri Bridge during construction, which
we have received, the failure occurred due to wrong scheduling on the placement
of concrete. Equally important, the collapse was caused by works undertaken outside
authorised working hours without supervision. The responsibility for the collapse and the conveyance is placed
on the contractor as per the contractual documents. The government, by extension the taxpayer, is fully fortified from any possible
financial loss by the performance guarantee, insurance and for the delays
covered by liquidated damages. Going forward, we are more than determined to see the
project-which consists of the 100 metre—Sigiri Bridge and approach roads—to its
fruitful completion so that residents can begin enjoying its full utility.
However, this must be achieved in strict adherence to established engineering
principles and the highest standards of integrity. The contractor is under very firm instructions to rebuild the
bridge in readiness for commissioning by the end of the year. Kerra, which is
the implementing agency for rural roads, will be overseeing the
contractor under a strict regime to ensure full compliance to the provisions of
the contract. The bridge will undergo a
through commissioning and integrity test before it is handed over to the government.  While the collapse of the Sigiri Bridge was a rare deviation, the ministry
would like to evaluate and build on this unfortunate experience. It is
imperative that critical lessons are learnt from it so as to avoid the
possibility of future occurrence. As a department, and to serve as an example to
others, we have already instituted disciplinary action against a number of
project supervisors, who are employees of Kerra and the contractor. Equally significant, we have commissioned a thorough audit of
ongoing projects of similar nature to ensure that engineering integrity is
maintained on all of them at all times and stages.  Going forward, we wish to assure the public that we shall see to
it all road construction and other infrastructure projects are delivered not
just within contract terms, but also in strict adherence to the highest
standards.  Eventually, our socioeconomic development as stipulated under
Vision 2030 are best delivered not just by growth in our road inventory but through
a quality, world-class, durable and serviceable road network throughout the
country.       The author is the Principal Secretary, State Department of
Infrastructure