The title race may have been seen by many as a done deal in favour of run-away leaders Gor Mahia but Sofapaka are not about to throw in the towel. Their weekend’s win away at Bandari coupled with Gor’s shock defeat at the hands of relegation threatened Mathare United saw the lead between the top two teams slashed to twelve points. Gor though still have a game in hand and can widen the gap again when they take on Kariobangi Sharks tomorrow. “Nothing has been decided yet. We will fight for the title until it is mathematically impossible for us to catch up with Gor. Anything can happen in football. As a team, we have to be ready to take advantage of any lapse from our opponents. To do that, we must try to win all our remaining games,” remarked defender Humphrey Okoti. The win over Bandari saw Sofapaka firm their grip on second place with 48 points from 29 matches while Gor are still on 60 points. Kakamega Homboyz are third with 45 points after suffering a 2-1 loss at home to Nakumatt. Homeboyz took the lead in the 37th minute through Wycliffe Opondo who was put through by Ali Ahmed on the right. Nakumatt, however, leveled matters 22 minute later through Kepha Aswani who capitalised on a defensive lapse to beat goalkeeper David Juma. The retail traders left it late before club top scorer Aswani notched the winning goal for his 12th strike of the season that took him to the top of the ‘Golden Boot’ race. Ulinzi Stars remain fourth after their goal less stalemate with Zoo Kericho as they have a superior goal difference against Tusker with both sides on 43 points. The outgoing champiosn snapped a two-match win-less streak in emphatic fashion at Ruaraka. Mike Khamati raced after dread-locked midfielder Jackson Macharia’s cross before unleashing an unstoppable shot past Muhoroni goalkeeper Salim Sowedi. Jacob Faina gifted Tusker an easy attempt at goal with a penalty in the 39th minute when his outstretched hand blocked a goal bound shot from Macharia and lanky midfielder Humphrey Mieno stepped forward to dispatch the dead ball into the net. Khamati scored his second five minutes after the restart via a close range headed effort past a poorly positioned Sowedi. Veteran striker Allan Wanga put the icing on the cake in the 67th minute with yet another header this time from a corner delivered by Boniface Muchiri to end a long stretch without scoring. Muhorroni remain rooted at the bottom of the league table with 24 points.