A free methadone clinic for 4,500 heroin addicts has opened in Kombani, Kwale county. It is said to be Kenya’s first Medically Assisted Therapy Clinic providing methadone for heroin addicts. The facility, which opened on Monday, includes a dispensary, the MAT clinic and a rehabilitation centre. The full treatment lasts two years. Methadone is an opiate prescribed as a substitute for heroin.  It reduces withdrawal symptoms without causing the ‘high’ associated with addiction. Drug dealers are said to be opposed to the clinic that would reduce the number of addicts buying from them. “This facility is the only one in the country to provide the three services to youths suffering from addiction, Kwale governor Salim Mvurya said. He thanked the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, USAID and the National AIDS and STIs Control Programme “for helping us achieve this dream”. Mvurya said drug abuse has destroyed the lives of youths who would have served in the county government and the larger community. The clinic and rehab will give hope to addicts, he said. “Our brothers and sisters dependent on drugs will now say ‘no’ to them, as they will be guided at the rehabilitation centre,” Mvurya said. Skills training and income-generating activities are provided at the centre so youth will become independent after the course of medication, he said. Anti-drugs crusader Cosmus Maina thanked the county government for allowing his Teens Watch to operate for more than 15 years.  In February, he said two of his cars were set ablaze and he suspected drug dealers were trying to warn him against the methadone programme. Maina said since the introduction of methadone under his smaller facility, at least 25 addicts have recovered. “We have been helping our colleagues in Ukunda and I can say methadone is working since we have people with testimonials to support that,” Maina said. He asked parents whose children are addicts to register them at the clinic so they can receive free daily doses “Unlike other counties, Kwale is lucky to have the three facilities at our centre,” Maina said.  “It’s your responsibility as parents to ensure you follow up on this medication for your children. We are sad today even as we are thankful for the facility. We lost one of us from an overdose.”  Kwale Deputy Governor Fatuma Achani said the county will provide free transport to and from the clinic so addicts do not miss their daily dose.  It will be open daily, even on holidays. “Now parents should bring their children for registration and medication. Don’t hide them,” Dr Martin Serengo from NASCOP said. He said the success of the programme will convince doubters and more people will come for treatment.