Meeting Agenda 2063 and the 17 Sustainable Development Goals still remain a tall order for many countries in Africa, such as Kenya, a new report has indicated. The 2017 regional report on Agenda 2063 and the Sustainable Development Goals says there are still many bottleneck watering down gains.  Slow progress has been made in reducing poverty and inequality, the report says. It attributed the state of affairs to limited decent employment opportunities and weak social insurance mechanisms. “The rate of decline in extreme poverty ($1.90 per day) has been slow in Africa, declining a mere 15 per cent during the period 1990-2013. Women and young people bear the brunt of poverty,” the 109-page report says. The World Bank says 22 per cent of Kenyan youth aged between 15 and 24 are unemployed. The report assesses continent’s performance in domesticating and implementing the two development frameworks since their adoption in 2013 and 2015, respectively. It is aligned with the theme of the 2017 High Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development – “Eradicating poverty and promoting prosperity in a changing world”. This report is a joint annual publication of the African Union Commission, the Economic Commission for Africa of the UN, the African Development Bank and the United Nations Development Programme-Regional Bureau for Africa. It focuses on ending poverty, zero hunger, good health and well-being, gender equality, industry, innovation and infrastructure. The report says the ever-rising food insecurity and undernourishment is a growing concern. In Kenya, arid and semi-arid areas are most affected by malnutrition. A recent report by Unicef and nine aid organisations in August showed at least 70,000 of Kenyan children were severely malnourished. Turkana, East Pokot, Mandera, Samburu and West Pokot were the most affected. In Turkana, the rate of severe malnutrition rates increased from 2.3 per cent to 8.3 per cent in just one year.  The survey further shows that nearly 40,000 pregnant and nursing women across Kenya are malnourished, a 20 per cent increase from last year’s figure.