Burundi’s request to withdraw from the International Criminal Court elapsed the one-year period on Thursday, making the country the first in history to officially withdraw from the Rome Statute.  Kenya and Uganda also threatened to quit the ICC, with Zambia launching a nationwide public hearings on whether to leave or stay as a member of the court. South Africa, too, had made an attempt to quit. There was a gradual African disinterest in the court since 2009, when it issued an arrest warrant for Sudanese President Omar al Bashir, whose country is not a signatory to the Rome Statute. But how did we get here? “It may seem strange to you here, especially the many of you who lost members of your family, but all over the world there were people like me sitting in offices, day after day after day, who did not fully appreciate the depth and speed with which you were being engulfed by this unimaginable terror. If we’d gone in sooner, I believe we could have saved at least a third of the lives that were lost.” It is the infamous apology by former US President Bill Clinton on his 1998 state visit to Kigali, Rwanda regretting that the US and the International Community didn’t act timely. Reminiscent of the Rwanda Genocide, the Burundi conflict until UN Secretary General Ban Ki Moon intervened was gradually forming into another genocide. Following talks with Ban, President Pierre Nkurunziza on February 2 2016 agreed to engage the opposition in an ‘inclusive dialogue’ to end the 10-month political crisis. Nothing much came from that promise. In fact in September that year, the head of one of Burundi’s opposition parties was arrested for what police said was collaborating with “armed gangs”. The opposition accuses Nkurunziza of violating the constitution and a peace pact that ended a civil war in 2005.  The government, on the other side, accuses opponents of stirring unrest, and accuses them of backing rebel groups, which officials call “armed gangs.” Burundi’s government last year dismissed a UN decision to set up a commission of inquiry to identify perpetrators of killings and torture, saying it was based on a one-sided account of events in the country.  This is totally against the principles of the UN Charter as provided in Article 1 (1) “ To maintain international peace and security, and to that end: to take effective collective measures for the prevention and removal of threats to the peace, and for the suppression of acts of aggression or other breaches of the peace, and to bring about by peaceful means, and in conformity with the principles of justice and international law, adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations which might lead to a breach of the peace.” These developments obviously question Burundi’s commitment to national, regional and international peace and security.