President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto yesterday voiced strong support for amendments to electoral laws to fill the gaps identified by the Supreme Court when it annulled the August 8 election. Speaking in Mombasa, Uhuru said it was necessary to remove the lacuna in law cited by the Supreme Court to ensure the same gaps do not force the court to deliver another verdict in future. “To lay a foundation for free, fair, transparent and credible elections, we need broad support for these amendments that the Kenyan people have demanded,” he said. Uhuru and Ruto were addressing Mombasa Jubilee leaders at State House, Mombasa. A select committee of both Houses of Parliament yesterday presented the amendments for debate and approval. kenyans’ support Kenyans of all walks of life have told the President, as well as to the select committee, that they wanted to see the changes so elections do not become an endless charade. The IEBC also broadly supported the changes. “I will not hesitate, for even a minute, to sign the new amendments into law once presented to me after debate and approval by Parliament,” Uhuru said. poll will go on Ruto urged Parliament to expedite the process. “How is it possible to blame Parliament (for amending the law) when it is addressing the problem identified by the Supreme Court, yet the court was clear they would nullify if the same errors are repeated? Does the opposition want us to keep nullifying the elections?” he asked. “That’s why we have told Parliament to formulate laws to fill the electoral gaps to ensure a smooth election. They have our strong support.” Ruto said the country cannot afford to go for a fresh presidential election without rectifying the electoral laws, which are key to free, fair and credible polls. The President and DP said elections are the only way to Kenya’s presidency, and any belief that protests would lead to a nusu mkate government are mistaken. Uhuru said the election will go on as scheduled, with the IEBC presiding, and urged Kenyans to stick with his agenda of unity and development.