The venue of this year’s Standard Chartered Nairobi Marathon has been moved to Railways Club from Nyayo Stadium. As a result, Local Organizing Committee (LOC) announced today, the start and finish points for all races will be located around Railway Club. LOC chairman Peter Gitau said the move has been necessitated by the ongoing construction works around Nyayo Stadium. The venue had been earmarked to host the African Nations Championship (CHAN) after Kenya won the bid to host the biennial amateur football event.  “We had been optimistic that the ongoing repair works would be complete by end of October. However, following our visit to the stadium and consultations with the Stadia Management Board, we have opted for an alternative venue,” said Gitau.  Following the changes, the course will be altered slightly as the runners will now have to cover more distance within the Central Business District to make up for the reduced distance on Uhuru Highway. The far reaching changes announced yesterday have also seen the race date moved to November 26. This, however, has been occasioned by the decision by IEBC to reschedule the repeat presidential date to October 26. The race had been scheduled to take place on October 29 in line with the gazetted date but LOC revealed the poll activities will impact on the preparations. “It is not feasible to hold the event three days after the election date since the organisers require more than two weeks for securing and sprucing up the venues. The event venue is traditionally used by IEBC as a polling station and constituency tallying centre. This means we cannot set up the Kit Collection Expo while at the same time we cannot commence the route marking on time,” said Gitau. The LOC chairman further disclosed that the prize money has been increased by Sh300,000. “The winner of the 21km category will take home Sh200,000 up from Sh150,000. The 1st runners up will receive Sh150,000 up from Sh100,000 and 2nd runners up Sh100,000 up from Sh50,000. The prizes for the other categories will remain the same as last year. Going forward, we will look into possibilities of reviewing the other categories,” he added. The organisers are targeting 25,000 participants this year and hope to raise Sh45 million which will be channelled to the ‘Seeing is Believing’ initiative.  Gitau said the registration for this year’s event will remain open till mid- November 2017. All participants, individual and corporates, are required to register online through the official marathon website www.sc.com/ke/Nairobimarathon at a fee of Sh2,000. The six race categories remain unchanged— 42km, 21km, 10km, 21km wheelchair— all featuring mean and women, 5km Family Fun Run and 3km CEO challenge.