Former Meru Governor Peter Munya and PNU senatorial loser Mugambi Imanyara on Monday applied to be allowed access to the county KIEMS kits before the October 26 repeat presidential race. Munya is expected to present eight witnesses in the High Court in Meru. He has filed a petition challenging Governor Kiraitu Murungi’s victory. Murungi will present four witnesses, while IEBC is to present between one and 14 witnesses, depending on the petitioner’s quest for cross-examination. The case, which is before Judge Justice Francis Gikonyo, will be mentioned next Tuesday. Through lawyer Martin Gitonga, Munya expressed fears that the KIEMS kits will be tampered with, when and if they are used during the presidential rerun. But IEBC lawyer Lucy Kambuni dismissed the allegations. Justice Gikonyo gave orders that Munya, the IEBC and Murungi serve one another on or before Monday. He said Munya’s requests for production of election materials will be set and determined by the court. There was heated debate over the legality of affidavits filed before court by Munya. Kiraitu’s lawyer Mutuma Kibanga and Kambuni argued that the affidavits are additional documents and are against elections rules. “It is only one affidavit filed in support of the petitioner. Others are annexure affidavits and offend elections rule Number 12, as they do not constitute evidence,” Mutuma said. In response, Gitonga said, “The petitioner filed the entire bundle. In the event the court finds the petitioner did not file them in order, then for service of justice, let the petitioner be allowed to file them in an orderly manner,” he said. Elsewehere, Justice Ann Ongijo set the hearing of Imanyara’s case for Monday 19 October and its mention for Tuesday. The IEBC and county returning officer’s lawyer Ruth Kiriara, Imanyara’s lawyer Gitonga and Senator Mithika Linturi’s lawyer Verrah Owuor, who represented Tom Ojienda, agreed on KIEMS application. “The consent on KIEMS kits application is to determine whether or not they are secure, configured and if configured, confirm the extent of configuration. Whether the relevant data is still available and on how they can be availed,” Gitonga said.