Former IG David Kimaiyo has asked the electoral body to declare Uhuru Kenyatta president without repeating elections in four Nyanza Counties. Kimaiyo said on Sunday that it will be inconsequential for IEBC to repeat the polls in Nyanza, noting Uhuru has garnered at least 7.4 million votes. He noted the number is close to what the President garnered in the nullified August 8 polls, an indication he won. Related: [VIDEO] Declare Uhuru president, Nyanza counties won't affect outcome - Balala, Hassan Omar Also read: Kenyans can't be led with barrel of gun, Raila tells UhuRuto The former IG said the election was successful in 44 counties and that Uhuru attained the requisite 25 per cent in at least 23. IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati said elections will be carried out afresh in Kisumu, Siaya, Migori and Homa Bay counties after protesters prevented electoral officials from running the exercise on Thursday. "I ask IEBC not to waste time. Declare Uhuru Kenyatta president so that swearing-in plans begin," Kimaiyo said. He noted delays will unnecessarily extend the election mood and may plunge the country into instability. Kimaiyo said the unending political season and insecurity in various parts of the country will jeopardise national exams beginning on Tuesday. "Our children will start their KCSE exams on Tuesday. We want them to write their exams in a peaceful country," he said. "The declaration of a substantive president should have been done 'like yesterday'. This country should move on." The retired police chief said there is no reason to delay the declaration as polls were conducted peacefully in counties other than the four in Nyanza. Kimaiyo, who lost the Elgeyo Marakwet senator seat to Senate majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen, urged Uhuru to unite the divided country if declared president. "I urge the President to meet leaders across the political divide and ensure the country is united after the election." Kimaiyo said it is not proper for a democratic country to run without a substantive commander-in-chief of defence forces as state security might be compromised. Also read: Losing Kenya to dictatorship will put Africa at risk, Mudavadi warns West