NASA won't be blackmailed into backing out of its weekly demonstrations, Siaya Senator James Orengo has said. The lawyer reacted on Tuesday to diplomats' statement asking leaders and citizens to reject violence after one person died in Siaya during the Opposition's protests against IEBC. They said: "Kenyan leaders should publicly reject violence and ensure their supporters do the same. Some Kenyans are stoking community tensions and it must stop." More on this: [Statement] Don't paralyse IEBC, protect media for proper poll - envoys But addressing the media after a meeting with IEBC officials on Tuesday, Orengo said they have a right to picket and that the Friday protests will continue. "We are not going to be blackmailed. We are not very enthusiastic about going to the united States of America. The diplomats have overstepped its mandate, our sovereignty cannot be surrendered to anyone," he said. "We are taken aback by utterances by the diplomatic community. They too have issues from their mother countries to deal with. America also has its own problems." NASA chief Raila Odinga announced that the protests will take place every Monday and Friday. The goal is IEBC CEO Ezra Chiloba's resignation and no changes to election laws ahead of the fresh presidential vote on October 26. More on this: Raila declares nationwide Monday, Friday demos over IEBC, election laws MEETING FRUITLESS Orengo reported that the meeting with the electoral agency did not bear fruit but said they will meet IEBC before the end of the day. "None of the issues we raised as irreducible minimums have been met or responded to so we left without agreeing," he said. "We will meet two commissioners later in the day for a way forward." The Senator said IEBC is giving them the report of what they are doing, not what they intend to do to rectify mistakes made in the August 8 election. "There should be an audit to ensure security and integrity of the technology to be deployed. IEBC is not clear on this," he said. Orengo reiterated their demands must be met before the election and added "nothing is agreed until it is agreed. If we get appropriate answers in the next hours, the better." "We insist that our demands must be met for purposes of ensuring the election is held according to the constitution." He noted time is running out so the commission must make sure problems are solved "sooner rather than later". "They should consider these issues seriously so we don't have further engagement on the same matters." ACADEMIC FREEDOM Regarding University of Nairobi, Orengo said Vice Chancellor Peter Mbithi should have dealt with problems instead of sending students home. He said academic freedom is being violated following the decision over security concerns. Read: Mbithi must go, UoN students say as varsity closes indefinitely The legislator further said the VC should be able to address the matter of police brutality, not sweep it under the rag. "We saw police brutality, and instead of authorities dealing with the issue [students] have been sent home," he said. Earlier today, IPOA asked all UoN students who were assaulted by police to record statements at their office. In a letter signed by CEO Joel Mabonga, the Independent Policing Oversight Authority said all affected students must visit their office at Upper Hill in Nairobi. "It has come to our attention that the University of Nairobi has been indefinitely closed. IPOA is kindly appealing to the 26 students injured during the police assault on September28 not to leave until they have recorded statements with IPOA," read the Tuesday letter. More on this: IPOA asks assaulted UoN students to record statements Also read: UoN students, staff threaten to protest after police assault at varsity