Supreme Court Justice Isaac Lenaola yesterday rejected a case seeking reversal of the court’s judgment oveturning President Uhuru kenyatta’s victory on August 8. Lenaola dismissed a petition filed by Jackson Ndegwa and Edward Kings. “The applicants are strangers to the petition which they seek to void,” Lenaola said. ‘Unless they had been properly enjoined to it, all their patriotic attempts at invalidating the said petition and voiding its judgment must fail.” Ndegwa and Kings had said the Supreme Court judgment was infringing, oppressing and violating their freedom and their rights. They duo, seeking to have the court overturn the judgment, claimed it originated from flawed and incompetent proceedings. They also contended that the petition by NASA flagbearer Raila Odinga and running mate Kalonzo Musyoka was invalid because it failed to comply with Section 35 of the Advocates Act . The petitioners had also told the court the repeat poll on October 26 is a huge burden to an already battered economy, further arguing the Sh14 billion set aside for the rerun could be channeled to other projects such as Education or Health. The case had initially been rejected by deputy registrar Daniel ole Keiwua when the petitioners appeared before him on September 18. But the two appealed the decision before Lenaola who allowed them to make oral submissions after Raila and other parties failed to respond. “Our case raises very serious constitutional issues and legal principles and the move by the registrar to reject the case is a violation of the Constitution in Articles 1, 3-1, 10, 22, 35 and 159,” Ndegwa told the judge. But Lenaola said while the rights to a fair hearing, access to justice and fair administrative action are the bedrock of a judicial system, the same cannot be enjoyed in a procedural vacuum. The apex court, by a 4-2 decision, nullified the August 8 presidential election, citing irregularities and illegalities in the tallying and transmission of results, among othe rproblems.. Chief Justice David Maraga, Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu, Justices Smokin Wanjala and Lenaola said the IEBC failed to conduct the poll in line with the Constitution and election laws. They called for a presidential rerun within 60 days.