Bishop Cornelius Korir who died yesterday will be buried on Monday, November 6 at the St John's Sacred Heart Cathedral in Eldoret. A funeral service will be at the Eldoret Sports Club before the burial. According to Bishop Philip Anyollo who chaired the church burial committee, the Bishop's body will be moved to the cathedral on Sunday for a special service ahead of Monday's burial. Bishop Korir of the Eldoret diocese died suddenly at his house aged 67. Anyollo who is chairman of the Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops said Korir was found dead at about 6 am by priests who had gone to help him travel to Nairobi for medication at the Karen hospital. He said Bishop Korir had been well and had just returned to the country from Europe. Korior was one of the most prominent church leaders in the country well known as a human rights defender and peace crusader. He is particularly remembered for housing more than 7,000 victims of the 2007/8 post election violence victims. He ventured into difficult areas during the clashes to preach peace and reconcile communities. Read; [VIDEO] Catholic Bishop Cornelius Korir is dead Bishop Korir was born in 1950 at Segutiet, Kericho Diocese in the former Bomet District. He was ordained Bishop of the Catholic Diocese of Eldoret on June 2, 1990. This was when the diocese, which then included Kitale, had 50 parishes. Korir was then consecrated as Bishop on June 2, 1990. Last week, he asked NASA and Jubilee leaders to dialogue and resolve the current political row over elections. "He returned on Saturday from a long journey in Europe and only complained of a mild cold and coughing and was to go to Nairobi but he died suddenly," said Bishop Anyollo. His body was taken to the Moi Referral Hospital mortuary. Bishop Anyollo urged Kenyans to pray for the deceased whose contribution to peace in the country was immense Anyollo said other arrangements on his burial will be announced later. A service was yesterday held in Eldoret in honour of the Bishop. Political leaders including Mps Oscar Sudi, Sila Tiren, Governor Alex Tolgos and Senator for Nandi Samson Cherargei have attended the service. Bishop Korir has presided over an unprecedented increase in church membership and was known to work closely with other church leaders including Muslims. He has also been instrumental in the growth of the Catholic Church's education and health sectors. This was seen through the several schools and hospitals he helped build in the region. In October 2013, he established the Upendo FM radio station that broadcasts from his diocesan office on 89.4 FM in the North Rift. He served in Molo, Kituro and Nakuru before taking up the role of Vocations Director and Episcopal Vicar at the Diocese of Kericho. President Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto who mourned the death of Korir's have visited the Catholic church in Eldoret three times to attend prayers and meet with the clergyman over peace and security issues. “I have never come across another person with the kind of humility, dedication, love and one who always stood for truth and Justice like Bishop Korir”, said Governor Mandago. He said the region had immensely benefitted from Korir’s wisdom and he would be greatly missed. Chairman of the Imams and Preachers in the region Abubakar Bini said he had worked closely with the Bishop on peace missions He said the country had lost a great person. “He went to churches, mosques and anywhere he was needed to preach peace. He helped many people without caring about their religion or tribe,” said Bini. Uasin Gishu County Commissioner Abdi Hassan said Bishop Korir supported the government and all other stakeholders to ensure peace prevails in the region. At one of his last press briefings before the August 8 elections, Bishop Korir urged political leaders not to take the country back to the route of 2007/8 violence. Also read;UhuRuto, Raila eulogise Bishop Cornelius Korir as peacemaker