Two High Court judges have separately ordered the Nation and Standard media groups to pay former Githunguri MP Njoroge Baiya Sh6.5 million as compensation for defamation. The politician had sued the Nation Media Group and the Standard Group after the two companies published articles he claims ruined his political career. The articles were published in the two dailies in March 2013. Baiya lost his seat in the August 8 General Election. Baiya told the court the Nation, in its article titled “MPs reject demeaning salaries and vow to push for fresh review”, gave the wrong impression about him. He argued the article suggested he and other MPs would lead demands for fresh negotiations with the Salaries and Remuneration Commission for higher pay and allowances. In his case against the Standard, Baiya said the article published on March 24, 2013, also gave the wrong impression about him. In both cases, the former legislator said the publications did not only publicly and personally defame him but also lowered his esteem. Further, he claimed the article depicted him as a politician greedy for money. Baiya told Justice Lucy Njuguna, who handled the suit against the Nation Media Group, that he has never been in electoral office for money, salaries or allowances but to serve his constituents. “I even tried to make a clarification on social media but my statements were overwhelmingly met with insults and dissatisfaction,” he said. Following the publications, he was ridiculed by his political opponents and his constituents, he said. In her judgement, Njuguna said the company, being the author of the article, should have proven the source of information and its status. She ordered the company to pay Sh3 million as general damages and a further Sh500,000 for exemplary damages. “I find and hold that the plaintiff has proven his case on a balance of probability,” Njuguna ruled. In the Standard case, Justice Stephen Riechi said that while there was no evidence the article was sensationalised, it was, however, wrong for the company to publish the claims without first seeking a clarification from the politician. “The defendant was, therefore, reckless in publishing the same,” the judge ruled. He ordered the company to pay Baiya Sh2 million as general damages and Sh1 million as exemplary damages.