Book: City of Thorns Author:  Ben Rawlence Publisher: Portobello Books   A refugee camp is the best place to show humanity that nobody willingly leaves behind his home, unless it is burning. And this is more aptly placed at Dadaab, the world’s biggest refugee camp just north of Kenya, whose existence, mostly ignored by most Kenyans, shapes the policies and economy of the country, region and the world. To the world, Dadaab is a hotbed of terrorists by being a fertile ground for al Shabaab to recruit jihadists, and inhabited by refugees who have refused to move back to their countries, despite world efforts to bring peace back to their homes. Created in 1992 to house 25,000 refugees, mostly from Somali after the fall of Said Barre’s government, the camp has grown to a population of more than 500,000, which is the size of an African metropolis, to include nationalities from Ethiopia, South Sudan, Uganda and even Kenyans who voluntarily live there. To them, home is burning, a past they wish to forget, with Dadaab being an uncertain present pointing to a bleak future of being unwanted at home, Kenya and any country to offer asylum. It is this anguish and how Dadaab impacts on the economy of the region that Ben Rawlence masterfully tells in a well-researched work, which seeks to draw the world’s attention by crafting how nine lives of refugees hang in the balance. Rawlence, a former journalist, is best placed to tell the Dadaab story after he came to the area for the first time in 2010 as a researcher with Human Rights Watch. He came back a year later and visited the camp seven times in five months to research for the book. He sums up his findings through the story of nine people who fled from Somali over famine, 1990’s civil wars, al Shabaab attacks and Kenyans who chose to stay in the camp. Rawlence creates the face of hopelessness as refugees struggle to go back home to Mogadishu, resettle in Nairobi and seek asylum in Europe or North America to no avail. In March last year, the EU agreed to fund Turkey to build more houses at Dadaab at a cost more than Sh600 billion in two phases, which the Kenyan government refused to do, insisting the camp should be closed and refugees resettled elsewhere. Kenya insisted the camp has been housing al Shabaab, with the infamous Westgate Mall attack leading to demonisation of Dadaab, and seeing more tightening of restrictions, low funding, limited movement of refugees and life at the camp becoming tougher. But estimates show that Dadaab, through aid industry and illegal charcoal, sugar, arms and food importation from Somalia and neighbouring countries, has an annual turnover of Sh2.5 billion. The camp started in 1954, when the British Army drilled a borehole in the area that accounts for Sh1.4 billion of the region’s economy, making its closure catastrophic and a key playground for profiteers and politicians, especially from Northeastern, to make quick money. Key among that is transporting more than 8,000 tonnes of food per month to the camp, a lucrative trade fought by Somali clans across Kenya and Somali, and a struggle to sell land by local politicians to the UN, which funds the camp, for expansion. The books sheds light on how a patch of land that Kenya seeks to remove completely has a life of its own that shapes the country and the region.