After ditching NASA last month, speculations are rife that former Mombasa senator Hassan Omar could be joining Jubilee on Sunday.  On Saturday, Tourism CS Najib Balala revealed that there has been talks with the former human rights activist to join the party.  Balala said that Omar has been kind to Jubilee.  “We have been engaging with the former Senator Hassan Omar. He is a kind man and we are working very closely. In fact, half of his petition (against Governor Hassan Joho’s election victory) is being supported by evidence from Jubilee,” Balala said.  On Friday, Omar told the Star he is an independent man after quitting Wiper as the secretary general. When asked whether Omar will officially be received by President Uhuru Kenyatta during his rally in Mombasa on Sunday, Balala said, " We will know on Sunday."  He spoke at Serani grounds in Mombasa where he led a Jubilee delegation in inspecting the preparations for the Jubilee's rally.  President Uhuru is expected to issue title deeds to five parcels of land owned by Islamic organisations. Omar has said he will be attending the presidential function after receiving an invite from the Sunni Mosque committee which takes care of Serani ground, one of the parcels whose title will be issued. Omar unsuccessfully contested for the Mombasa governor's seat where he got 43,790 votes in the August 8. He was third behind Hassan Joho (221, 363 votes) and Shahbal (69,429 votes). Read: Omar tilts to Jubilee, won’t back Raila in fresh poll, slams Kalonzo In his letter of resignation in August, he said he would not be supporting NASA in the repeat presidential election. Suleiman Shahbal, who was also at the inspection, said politicians are joining JP in large numbers because of the track record Jubilee has especially at the Coast. Shahbal and Balala urged the Muslim community in Mombasa to vote for Uhuru saying he has rewarded them with the denied rights for a long time. “This Serani ground, also known as Arab ground, has been a target of many land grabbers in Mombasa. When I was mayor here 20 years ago, there was a big fight between me and the grabbers of school and public institution lands,” said Balala. Balala said Coast has benefited more from the Jubilee administration in five years than from other regimes in over 45 years. The two leaders said it is now the duty of Jubilee leaders in Mombasa and at the Coast to look for votes for Uhuru so he can continue his development agenda for the Coast people. Uhuru garnered 99,109 votes in Mombasa in the August 8 polls. Balala and Shahbal said they want to push this number to 150,000 votes. Read: Wiper leaders weak, Jubilee right in your bedroom, Omar tells Kalonzo