It is rare
for elections to leave all citizens in a country satisfied. One of the pillars
of democracy is open debate, and this requires opposing or conflicting views. A
close election can be as much a sign of a strong democracy as it can be a conflicted
one. As Kenya edges closer to October 26 and uncertain outcomes,
it is important to ensure that Kenya’s youth feel as secure and grounded as
possible.
 When people
are tired and stressed, they show less empathy than when they are calm and
rested. Empathy is an important catalyst for peaceful elections, especially
when they are highly partisan. The ability to consider the feelings and
viewpoints of ‘the other’ can be the difference between reacting with violence
and reacting with dialogue and communication.  What is so significant about
these facts is that there is a positive association between recreational
reading, relatedness, and community cohesion. In other words, reading fiction
is a strong predictor of social ability and in particular, of empathy. So if we
want Kenya’s youth to be more likely to react peacefully to elections and their
outcomes, we should get them into their school libraries so they can read
fiction.  A Boston
Group study found that reading for pleasure was strongly associated with emotional
and personal development, as well as a greater sense of community, stronger
feelings of social inclusion, a stronger ability to enjoy social occasion, and
enhanced openness and talkativeness.  Factor in
tense elections with uncertain outcomes, and the effects are even more
profound. People who read for pleasure have been found to have an enhanced
understanding of other people’s political perspectives. This is especially true
when youth listen to or read stories of individuals belonging to stigmatised groups
such as different ethnic groups.  So what
does this mean for children in Kenya? It means that if we can get books in
their hands, they can become agents of peace. Perhaps this is why it has been
shown that historically, highly literate societies, especially societies that
produced psychologically rich literature, have functioned more empathetically
and less violently than less literate societies. When you read fiction, you
uniquely engage the psychological processes needed to gain access to a characters’
subjective experiences.   But this
belies another question – how many youth in Kenya have access to school
libraries that actually stock an adequate supply of reading books, both in
fiction and non-fiction? The answer is: Not many. Estimates as to how many
schools in Kenya actually have libraries range dramatically from only four to
20 per cent, depending on how loosely you define a library. Regardless of where the
actual number falls in this estimate, Kenya is missing a huge opportunity to
educate its youth for peace simply by providing them with novels to read.  The
disappearance of access to print stories is absolutely something that should
concern any promoter of peace. When you contrast it with electronic media,
literature helps readers experience empathy and sympathy, and specifically,
books about violence and bullying help teens develop empathy.  In contrast,
media violence has been shown to contribute to aggressive behaviour. The answer
then is pretty clear, if we want kids in Kenya to stay grounded during
elections (and any other challenging periods in their lives), we want to put
books in their hands. And with exams looming, parents should also consider that
in terms of academic achievement, reading for pleasure has a greater influence
than having a parent with a degree. So let’s get these kids reading so that we
can create a generation of peace-making, high achieving students.     