About 14 underserved counties in the country are positioned to benefit from a World Bank-funded off-grid electrification project which will undergo inspection from next month. This follows the approval of Sh 15.56 billion by the bank in July this year, and the financing agreement with the government of Kenya signed last month to fund the project, dubbed Off-grid Solar Access Project for Underserved Counties. According to the bank’s implementation status and results report released last week, the supervision mission for the 14 counties is set to kick off from November 20th to the 30th. This precedes the effectiveness check of the project that is scheduled for December 4, 2017. However, the report indicates that the conditions for its effectiveness are being monitored and expected to be complete before the said date. Looking at the status report findings, the project is currently rated as substantial, based on different risk categories which include, but are not limited to, political and governance risk, environment and social risk, stakeholders’ risk and policy risks. At least 1.3 million people in 277,000 households across the 14 counties are expected to benefit from the project. Divided into four components, the project is aimed at increasing access to modern energy services in the underserved counties. These components include mini-grids for community facilities which are seen as a least cost off-grid electricity option, enterprises, and households to be funded to the tune of Sh4.15 billion, stand-alone solar systems and clean cooking solutions for households funded at a cost of Sh4.98 billion, stand-alone solar systems and solar water pumps for community facilities funded at a cost of Sh 4.15 billion and the implementation support and capacity building funded at a cost of Sh2.28 billion. Residents of the said counties will be engaged during the implementation of the fourth component through consumer education and citizen engagement. The project comes at a time when demand for electricity moved up 7.8 per cent as at June 30, as reported by Kenya Power last week during their investors’ briefing. This was a 3 per cent increase in demand from 4.8 per cent as registered in the 2015/2016 financial year.