A KCPE candidate shot by police last week in Homa Bay county will sit his exam in hospital. Titus Odhiambo, 15, is admitted at Homa Bay County Referral Hospital. He was shot in the chest by riot police during protests against the repeat presidential election last Thursday in Sindo Township, Suba south Subcounty. Odhiambo is a pupil at Sindo Baptist Academy. He underwent surgery to remove the bullet on Friday. Yesterday hospital matron Ruth Otieno said Odhiambo sustained serious injuries in the respiratory tract. “The bullet interfered with his respiratory system, hence he had difficulty breathing. We put him under oxygen for 24 hours before we conducted the operation,” she said. Otieno said the boy’s condition is improving and he will be able to sit the exam. “His health is improving. He can sit in bed on his own and talk,” she said. Odhiambo said he was worried he would fail to achieve his ambition of becoming a doctor if his condition worsens. “I had a dream of joining Mbita National School so that I become a medical doctor. But this health issue has made me give up because I am unable to walk on my own,” he said. Homa Bay county director of education Margaret Mwandale and Education chief officer Eunice Owino who visited him at the hospital said they have put in place all arrangements for him to sit the exam. Mwandale said her office was working on getting special invigilators to supervise Odhiambo. “We’re sure Titus will take his exam in the hospital without any hitch. The arrangements have been made to ensure the papers arrive on time,” she said. Owino said the county government will accord the boy the necessary support to sit the exam. “We’re going to work hand in hand with the Ministry of Education officials to ensure any technicalities which may deter this boy from sitting the exam,” she said. The boy’s mother Milka said, “We had lost hope he will not sit the examinations. But I’m we’ve been assured of all the preparation for my child to sit for exams.” Mwandale said they have put all requirements to the exam papers get to the centres in time. “A container has been put on Mfangano Island in Mbita which will be used to keep exams and serve other Islands to avoid delay,” She said.