NASA chief Raila Odinga has warned IEBC against declaring President Uhuru Kenyatta unopposed in the October 26 repeat poll, saying this would be illegal. The former Prime Minister, who on Tuesday withdrew from the fresh presidential election, said Uhuru’s term comes to an end on November 1. "They cannot impose someone to Kenyans...we won't allow it," he said during an interview with Radio Jambo at his Karen home in Nairobi on Wednesday morning. Raila said Kenyans will rise up to resist any attempts by Uhuru to cling to power after the expiry of the 60 days during which the repeat vote should have taken place. "We have many options....all the solutions are given in our constitution. It is only that Jubilee is unable to read the constitution," he told hosts Gidi and Ghost. "Jubilee fears competition...that is why they can't use brains but try to intimidate us. Kenyans will not accept an illegitimate president." "WE'LL EXPLOIT LEGAL OPTIONS" On September 1, the Supreme Court annulled Uhuru’s re-election after upholding Raila’s challenge and ordered a fresh election within 60 days as provided for in the constitution. The top court cited massive illegalities and irregularities but did not apportion blame on any of the IEBC's top electoral officers. NASA wants CEO Ezra Chiloba and 10 other secretariat members removed from office for allegedly interfering with election on August 8. Raila, who is pushing for grand house cleaning at Anniversary Towers ahead of the repeat election set for October 26, said Kenyans will exploit legal options available in the constitution to ensure that if Uhuru is sworn-in, his government remains illegitimate. "I laugh at Jubilee arguments because they are funny and nowhere near our constitution. We have a constitution that Jubilee doesn't want to read, which has all the solutions to our challenges." He noted the constitution safeguards the people's democracy and only the masses in the country will have the final say on how they are governed. "They can go ahead and do what they want but the courts will have the final say on these issues." Parliament earlier approved changes to election and the President is expected to sign the Bill into law on Thursday or Friday. Read: Parliament passes controversial election law amendment Also read: Praise, rebuke for Raila after election withdrawal, IEBC told to clean house "ELECTION OUTCOME ALREADY KNOWN" Raila sensationally claimed that Uhuru’s Jubilee party is printing ballot papers at a secret location in Industrial Area, Nairobi.  He said he withdrew from the race because Jubilee wants to stuff ballot boxes. "We have the pictures of Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju and former CS Davis Chirchir entering the printing firm along Mombasa Road to supervise the ongoing printing of fake ballot papers," he said. "If you go there right now, you will find the papers. What they wanted to do is fill them and stuff them in ballot boxes and say these are the votes. That is one of the reasons we withdrew. These are thieves and we cannot go to an election whose outcome is already known." More on interview: [VIDEO] Jubilee has printed fake ballot papers in Industrial area ahead of repeat polls - Raila Raila spoke a day after withdrawing from the October 26 repeat race saying IEBC has stonewalled any attempts to initiate reforms necessary for a free and fair election. NASA had given the electoral commission 11 irreducible minimums which it says must be met before they agree to go to the fresh election. "If they make the necessary changes we will go to elections," Raila said, adding his move is meant to push for a free and fair electoral process, now and in the future.  