James Maina Wanjigi was amongst a galaxy of pre-independence high-achievers who joined the colonial government in Kenya in a senior capacity. Educated at Ivy League Stanford University in the US, Wanjigi joined government as a Settlement Officer, rising to the post of Director of Settlement. His departure came dramatically after he billed President Jomo Kenyatta the then princely sum of Sh18,000, which was paid, albeit with some drama and controversy. The final straw came when Wanjigi expressly forbade then powerful Cabinet minister Angaine from acquiring (or was it grabbing, 30 grade cows from the Settlement Fund Trustees?). Angaine, then Wanjigi’s immediate boss, could not comprehend how a junior officer could challenge his authority and not only threatened, but attempted to physically assault the diminutive Wanjigi. Mercifully, Wanjigi made a quick getaway, thus defusing a potentially ugly situation. Angaine and his PS Peter Shiyukah wrote to Head of Civil Service Duncan Ndegwa and Kenyatta, and demanded the dismissal of Wanjigi. Cabinet minister Bruce Mackenzie and James Gichuru, however, they felt Wanjigi had acted in accordance with the civil service code and therefore did not deserve dismissal. Working with the combative Angaine, however, became a challenge and Wanjigi quit, but not without acquiring 700 acres at Rhino Park, in Nairobi’s exclusive Karen Area. Wanjigi applied and qualified to be the CEO of Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation at the youthful age of 26. A highly ambitious individual, he soon resigned to become MP for Kamukunji from 1969 to 1988. He also became Minister for Public Works and Tourism and created the expansive and successful Kwacha Group of Companies. Wanjigi is the father of powerful oligarch Jimi Wanjigi. Indeed, Jimi and this writer, Justice Njoki Ndung’u, First Lady Margaret Kenyatta and her personal assistant Connie Gakonyo grew up in Karen. Jimi was then and now undoubtedly is still the apple of his father’s eye. An incident comes to mind in the nineties, when an unsavoury exchange between Jimi and my schoolmate and friend David Muhato “got out of hand”. Jimi proffered some unkind, unprintable words to Muhato at the Jockey Club one Sunday afternoon. Muhato, a slugger of the old school and a Moran from Lenana School, did not take it kindly and engaged Jimi in a physical duel. Muhato gave a good report of his pugilistic skills and soon had Jimi motionless on the deck! Big mistake, I would say then and now! Powerful minister Wanjigi got wind that his little prince had been given a lekker thrashing and mobilised the state security machinery to hunt for Muhato. Mercifully, he successfully hid from the security cordon only to reappear in court on Monday where a compassionate OCPD and magistrate, to Wanjigi’s surprise, charged both men with the offence of public affray. Jimi in characteristic flamboyant style appeared with Voice of Kenya and KTN crews in tow, only to realise too late and to his chagrin that he was an accused person. The axis had changed and the mighty Wanjigis had to negotiate a truce. The case was later withdrawn. True to character, after falling out with UhuRuto, Wanjigi set out to teach them a lesson by joining NASA. Obviously Jubilee and Wanjigi share some deep secrets and Jimi was correct in stating that Jubilee was formed at his residence. The President and Deputy President amongst others have been regular guests. Jubilee must be apprehensive that sensitive information may get into wrong hands and Jimi, blinded by a sense of entitlement, cannot see the bigger picture. The raid on his residence ought to serve as a wake-up call. Illegal contracts as a general rule are never settled in court. A time comes in a man’s life when he must cut his losses and salvage what he already has!  