Mombasa - with over 580,000 registered voters - will not take part in the "sham selection" on October 26, Deputy Governor William Kingi has said. This is the date IEBC set for the fresh election after the Supreme Court annulled the August 8 presidential vote. Kingi said the resignation of IEBC commissioner Roselyne Akombe has vindicated them. Polling stations in the county "will be empty" on voting day, he declared, noting the resignation emphasises the fact the commission has no capacity to conduct a free and fair election. "We have massive support. The message has been made made clear - no reforms no election - and supporters have responded in affirmative," the university don said on phone on Wednesday. "Our supporters know the commission does not have the capacity to hold credible poll." He noted he was speaking for Governor Hassan Joho, who is deputy leader of NASA candidate Raila Odinga's ODM party. Kingi also said Akombe has confirmed their fears that irregularities and illegalities pointed out by the supreme court will be repeated next week. "Her statement shows IEBC will conduct a sham election. It will be just be rendered null and void." Parts of Mombasa burst into celebrations the moment news spread that Akombe had bowed out. "All along we have been right," one person said as a group danced and hailed Akombe for his bold move. Residents said the former commissioner valued Kenya and the people's lives. Some said her move, coming eight days to the poll, vindicated their presidential choice - Raila. Related: 'Crook or history maker'? Two women politicians speak on Akombe's move Raila has withdrawn from the race but IEBC insists he must take part unless form 24A is appended. The commission has even confirmed it has printed Raila's name and image on the ballot. Reports indicate the Opposition chief may move to court to stop IEBC from printing his name and mugshot. Akombe resigned stating "lives are at stake" and the "commission has become a party to current crisis". The crisis involves deaths of protesters calling for electoral reforms and uncertainty surrounding fresh election due in nine days. "It has become increasingly difficult to appear on television and defend positions I disagree with in the name of collective responsibility," she said in a statement from New York. While speaking of death threats in an interview with BBC, she cited that of the commission's ICT manager Chris Msando. Akombe said her detailed reports from staff expressing their safety and security concerns were met with extremist responses from most commissioners. "We need just a few men and women of integrity to stand up and say that we cannot proceed with the election on 26 October 2017 as currently planned," she said. More on this: Citing death threats, Roselyn Akombe quits IEBC Also read: [STATEMENT] IEBC can't deliver credible poll, Roselyn Akombe says as she throws in towel    