Deputy President William Ruto has thanked God "for keeping his promise to give them victory" in the repeat election. Uhuru Kenyatta was declared president-elect, much to the chagrin of NASA leaders who dismissed the repeat poll as a sham and declared they will swear-in Raila Odinga. IEBC announced on Monday that Uhuru got 7,483,895 million votes and Raila, who withdrew over lack of reforms, 73,228. The announcement of victory, by a margin of 98 per cent due to Raila's boycott for lack of IEBC reforms, provoked anger in Opposition strongholds. Read: NASA vow to swear-in Raila if IEBC declares Uhuru winner But Jubilee Party supporters celebrated right from the time IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati rose to speak at Bomas of Kenya in Nairobi on Monday. Via Twitter on Monday night, Ruto said: "Winning twice in two months! Our God has given us abundantly above what we asked. To the almighty God in Heaven be glory and honour." At least 1,725 retweets and 5,726 likes followed, some Twitter users claiming the poll was rigged. "Rigging twice in two months has nothing to do with God," '@calvinug' said, referring to the original vote on August 8, which the Supreme Court nullified, and the repeat on October 26. 'BMwamburi' wrote: "We boycotted! We the majority #NotMyPresident #ImNotMilitia." After Raila's boycott announcement, voters in Homa Bay, Kisumu, Migori, Siaya and other strongholds stayed away from polling stations. It is unlikely that the election will take place in these parts as Chebukati said he tried everything he could, within the law, while Uhuru acknowledged the people's right to vote or not. More on this: IEBC can't please everyone, election was proper - 'punching bag' Chebukati Also read: Uhuru re-elected with 98%, IEBC says after troubled election 'ODM Alert' noted many people have died since August 8 while SLim Sakwa said God has nothing to do with "your corrupt government and sham elections". '@jomusasa' said: "Thou shall not use the name of God in vain. Even a thief thanks God if he steals and is not caught." '@DWANDOLO' wrote: "The Lord I worship shuns injustice and celebrates virtue. We can't hold the bible in one hand and a weapon in the other. The body is one." But other users congratulated Ruto for the win saying they were ready for service by the government. "Kudos, Mr Vice...Yangu tano ulipata (you got my five more)...deliver the manifesto...kazi pia twangoja (we are waiting for you to work)," said '@Tinnahtrendy'. Vincent Renny said he was waiting for the next national election in 2022, when Ruto is expected to vie for the top seat as Uhuru said he will serve two terms only. "Awaiting your agenda on youth empowerment and employment." John Gikonyo said Ruto was the reason Jubilee Party won and wished the party well. '@dkanchori' replied: "True, it has been tough for us all. Kenya is ours to build and cherish with peace and development." On October 25, Ruto said God was great after after the Supreme Court failed to raise quorum to hear the case on postponing the re-run. Chief Justice David Maraga adjourned the hearing saying only he and judge Isaac Lenaola were available. He also cited the shooting of Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu's driver on Ngong Road. More on this: Election to go on, Supreme Court fails to raise quorum