Five Embu MPs have demanded Siaya Senator James Orengo’s arrest fafter his alleged disclosure of NASA’s plan to illegally swear in opposition leader Raila Odinga. The five are Senator Njeru Ndwiga, and MPs Mbeere North’s Charles Njagagua, Mbeere South’s Geoffrey King’ang’i, Manyatta’s John Muchiri and nominated legislator Cecily Mbarire. They said Orengo’s remarks are tantamount to treason and are intended to incite civil strife. Speaking to the Star separately, the legislators said Orengo knows NASA’s move would be unconstitutional and unlawful and Raila would have no legal authority. Njagagua said, “I’m not surprised by the remarks since the alliance has already converted into a resistance movement and thus I count this as just one of the resistance moves it’s planning to make. They should know Kenya is not a Banana Republic and thus they should be dealt with accordingly.” Ndwiga said Orengo is a seasoned lawyer but his remarks have made Kenyans see the opposition has reached “high levels of desperation because everything they have peddled to their listeners has ended up being trashed”. He said thus Kenyans should start seeing NASA leaders for who they really are and realise “their propaganda is below all levels of nonsense”. King’ang’i said, “What law are they going to use to implement their plan? NASA has started behaving like the militia group al Shabaab. I wonder whether this is what they meant by changing into a resistance movement.” Mbarire said, “NASA wants to spark civil strife. They have thrown the Constitution out of the window and are using the rule of the jungle to get power. This should not be allowed.” Muchiri said no government agency can be on the side of anybody illegally declaring himself President and that Orengo is a seasoned lawyer, but is acting like an amateur. The MPs wondered who would declare Raila the winner, yet the IEBC is the only recognised agency to do so. They said since the opposition lost all the available chances to get power legally, it is frustrated and desperate and is trying everything to cause civil strife that could lead to the creation of a caretaker government in which NASA will be included.