Three people were killed yesterday as the IEBC
was forced to postpone voting in four NASA stronghold counties following
day-long battles between police and protesters in the polarising
presidential rerun. Voter turnout was very low, especially in
Nyanza that includes hotspot Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori and Siaya
counties. Voting there, which mostly failed to take off, has been put
off to Saturday when they are expected to become secure armed camps. There
were gunshots, hurled stones, burning tyres and barricades and blocked
roads. Some protester used a pot of bees to block a road. Others smeared
human faeces on a polling station. At least two dozen people were injured, a number with gunshot wounds, some beaten by police. Many IEBC officers failed to show up for fear of their lives. NASA youth intimidated both officials and voters. The
repeat election has sharply divided the nation and is likely to be
fiercely disputed as opposition leader Raila Odinga withdrew and called
for a nationwide boycott, saying this election, like the first on August
8,  would not be free and fair.   The rerun was a one man show — Presidential Uhuru Kenyatta virtually unopposed, facing a handful of very minor figures.  His
victory in the August 8 General Election was nullified on September 1
by the Supreme Court, which cited illegalities and irregularities, as it
upheld Raila's challenge. Yesterday Raila's  absence loomed large. In
stark contrast to the August 8, many polling stations in the capital
and Odinga's strongholds saw only a trickle of voters. Many stations
failed to open. Many IEBC clerks did not turn up, transporters refused to transport election materials after many Nyanza roads were blocked. Failure
of some counties to hold elections could trigger legal challenges to
the election result, causing longer-term instability and worsening
ethnic divisions. In Kisumu, police used tear gas and fired live rounds over the heads of stone-throwing youths demanding a boycott.  Gunfire killed two protesters and wounded three, one nurse said. Riot
police fired tear gas in Kibera and Mathare, in Nairobi, where one
protester was killed. A policeman was injured in Mathare. Protesters set
fires in Kibera early in the morning. In Mathare a church was
firebombed. The areas are NASA strongholds. Police IG  Joseph Boinett denied police used excessive force. "Reports from there indicate there are gangs of youths going to stop voting but we are managing it in accordance with the law," Boinett said. Later,
police spokesman George Kinoti confirmed that "a case of a shooting in
Homa Bay county". There a small group of police officers had no choice
but to use "live fire to protect themselves" against "a large mob", he
said. Police said there were "isolated pockets of violence" in a few parts of Kenya. "Police
officers deployed countrywide are under strict instructions to respond
to acts of public disorder using lawful means and... appropriate force,"
Kinoti said. An estimated 40 to 50 people have been killed, mostly by security forces, since August 8. Yesterday IEBC
Chairman Wafula Chebukati announced voting had failed to take off in
Kisumu, Migori, Homa Bay and Siaya due to disruptions by NASA
protesters. NASA leaders protested against the postponement, calling it ethnic profiling. "The
people of Nyanza exercised their democratic right not to vote, just as
jubilee supporters decided to vote. Why are they forcing us to vote? We
do not want to vote," said ODM elections director Junet Mohamed said on
behalf of NASA. Pre-marked ballot papers in favour of Kenyatta
were found in parts of Machakos. IEBC officials said they did not know
who did the marking or when and when they were marked. Heavy
rains pounded the country on Wednesday night and Thursday causing voting
delays. Polling was=to be extended to compensate for late starts.  Many vehicles ferrying voting materials were stuck in the mud, some roads were impassable. Roads were cut off in Laikipia, Wajir and Embu, hampering movement of voters and ballot papers. Bangladesh slums
in Jomvu constituency, Mombasa county, was a no-go zone for IEBC
officials after residents barricaded the roads leading to St
Mary’s Primary School polling station. Protesters smeared human faeces all over the polling station, keeping awayIEBC officials.
 They waved banners saying "no election". Father Gabriel Dolan of Haki Yetu Organisation asked IEBC
officials to transfer the polling station from St Mary's to another place. He accused police of trying to intimidate residents into voting. “If people decide not to vote, it is their right. You cannot
force people to vote,” the Catholic priest said. Fr Dolan, beloved by Bangladesh residents, set up his organisation in informal settlements. He empowers residents through
income-generating activities and development projects. Bangladesh is predominantly inhabited by the Luo
community. The Luhya community also is represented. “If this place is not safe for voters, let IEBC transfer
this station freewheel. They have the mandate and
authority. Let those who want to vote go to the other station," Fr Dolan said. He said the heavy police presence was a menacing tactic. However, Jomvu constituency IEBC returning officer Nour Faraj
refused to transfer the station, since it is gazetted. Other places in Changamwe and Jomvu constituencies reported no
problems but most people shunned the stations that were empty for most
of the day. At Chaani Social Hall polling station 291  of 700 people
turned up to vote by noon, presiding officer Dennis
Marita said. Mombasa county commissioner Evans Achoki was heckled in Bangladesh after he told residents to allow people to vote in peace.  In
Kisumu,
GSU and officers attached were accused of looting a shop at
Kibuye Market. Attendants said they attacked them, demanded money and
food and then robbed the store. One officer is attached to a canine
unit, they said.   First they fired tear gas to scare off everyone, witnesses said. Officers also fired live bullets at a shop where women and children were seated, witnesses said. Along the Busia-Mumias road youth barricaded the way at Otimong polling station to
bar voters from entry. They used stones and pot of bees. In Nairobi's Mathare informal settlement, a police officer was hit by a stone thrown by a protester using a
sling. He was rushed by ambulance for treatment.