Nigeria’s independence in 1960 gave rise to a generation of contemporary artists who dazzled the world with their unique styles based on the Yoruba tradition. The Nigerian Art Festival taking place in Nairobi features nine pioneer artists of the Oshogbo School of Artistry in south-western Nigeria.  Organised by African Heritage House in collaboration with the Nairobi Gallery, National Museums of Kenya and Alliance Française, the festival runs from October to November. Bruce Onobrakpeya, one of the most talented African artists of the 20th century, participated in the first Nigerian festival in Nairobi in 1972. He experiments with different styles of painting and African sculpting, and revolutionised print-making with new techniques of “bronze lino reliefs” and “plasto-cuts”. The paintings Dameny Masquerader and Laziest Wrestlers are part of his silk-screen serigraphs, where he captures movements seen at cultural events and patterns of traditional clothing. The late Twins Seven Seven was so named because he was the only surviving child from his mother’s seven sets of twins. A self-taught artist, Twins is one of the best products of Oshogbo. A flamboyant character, Twins Seven Seven was one of Unesco’s Artists for Peace in 2005. His fantastical drawings, derived from Yoruba folklore, are filled with spirits, ghosts and mythical figures. On display at Nairobi Gallery are tall plywood panels drawn in ink and acrylics, with thickly-outlined figures and animals, richly decorated with patterns of Nigerian fabrics. The only female artist in the exhibition is the eminent Nike Davis-Okundaye, who was once married to the polygamous Twins Seven Seven.Nevertheless, she developed her own style of batiks and watercolours of Nigerian life. Several of her large pieces on display are in the needle batik style with pencil thin lines and colours bleeding into each other. Nike’s large, hand-painted patchwork quilts in indigo blue colours and symmetrical patterns are amazing. She grew up around the traditional Adire textiles and the tie dye crafts of the Yoruba women, becoming proficient in the technique. The late Ashiru Olatunde was a blacksmith like his father and turned to making metal jewellery when illness reduced his ability to work. He went on to create larger art pieces on beaten sheets of aluminium and copper. Olatunde used repousse metalwork technique, drawing the scenes on the back of the sheet, then hammering them in to create raised pictorials on the frontside. It is a laborious process and his art is filled with visual narratives. At the festival are aluminium reliefs of Yoruba mythology, Bible stories, nature and daily life. Some of the pieces are made by his son, Folorunso Olatunde, who followed in his footsteps. There is a sentimental quality to Muraina Oyelami paintings. Three Dreadlocks has a trio of Rastafarian men with square faces and pastel-coloured clothing, their dreadlocks standing stiffly upright. The son of farmers, Muraina, started his career a performing artist and painter of signboards and houses before going into fine art. He still uses a commercial roller to layer on paints on his portraits and scenes of cultural ceremonies. Jimoh Buraimoh distinguished himself from other Oshogbo artists by creating oil paintings inlaid with tiny glass beads, and huge building murals made with glass, coins, stones and shells. He takes inspiration from traditional dress and headgear adorned with beads and other trinkets. Although he has not changed his style greatly over the years, they are still amazing paintings. Adebisi Fabumni was born and raised by his Nigerian parents in Ghana before going to Oshogbo. He works in different styles but is mostly a printmaker, creating lively images of city scenes filled with houses, animals, farms, patterns and colours. He has also achieved renown for depicting Yoruba life using coloured thread and wools. From the late Rufus Ogundele are oils paintings on canvas with vivid primary colours and dark outlines, which depict elements of Yoruba culture but also show European influence. Bold lines and interlaced arcs characterise the selection of Jacob Afolabi’s abstract paintings on paper. He has filled the spaces with black lines, curves and eye shapes that add to the fluidity of the soft-coloured images. Afolabi’s abstracts are inspired by traditional and Christian religious beliefs.