A summit called to resolve the nurses strike has been cancelled at the last minute after some officials of the Kenya National Union of Nurses refused to attend. The meeting was organised by the Council of Governors and the Health ministry. It would have brought together CoG, the ministry, 15 KNUN officials, all 47 directors of Nursing Services in Kenya, the National Nurses Association of Kenya, the Progressive Nurses Association of Kenya, the Nursing Council of Kenya, the Kenya Medical Training College and a representatives of Nursing Student Forum of University. The meeting was to be held at Pride Inn Hotel in Westlands today. CoG chief executive Jacqueline Mogeni had to cancel the meeting on Friday after some officials of the KNUN said they would not attend. Mogeni said the union is a key stakeholder and there is no point proceeding with the meeting if the union was not fully represented. “After a deep scrutiny, we realised that it was a ploy by CoG to have the nurse managers take a vote against [KNUN secretary general Seth] Panyako and subsequently call off the strike,” Panyako told nurses in a message on their Facebook page and Telegram channel. KNUN chairman said John Biiy said he is ready to attend the meeting and accused Panyako of paranoia and of scuttling efforts to end the strike. “Every step the government wants to take, he reads malice because he's scared. He fears his position is at stake. He's not serious and lacks the interests of nurses at heart,” Biiy said yesterday. The strike, which began on June 5, was declared illegal on September 1. At least 60 per cent of nurses have resumed work after the counties withheld their salaries and announced plans to replace them. The strike has ended in seven counties. They are Embu, Nairobi, Mandera, Uasin Gishu, Nandi, Tharaka Nithi and Bomet. The latest count shows in the remaining counties, more than half of their nursing staff have abandoned the strike and resumed work. However, CoG said it still wants the strike to be officially called off.   According to the union's constitution, it is the mandate of the secretary general to call off a strike. In his message, Panyako urged the union branch leaders to write press statements urging the President to intervene. The union leadership is also split, with four members aligned to Panyako and others to chairman Biiy. Yesterday, Biiy said they must comply with the court ruling and stop the strike. “What does the President have to do with this. Ninety-five per cent of nurses are employees of counties, only five per cent are from the national government," he said. "Panyako has only one option, to call off the strike and stop hullabaloos. He is trying to get sympathy by claiming he is being persecuted. The government should stand firm to enhance the rule of law.”