The defence team in the murder trial of human rights lawyer Willie Kimani has sought time to go through evidence the prosecution says proves a police officer was involved in the killing. Yesterday, David Chemilil of the Flying Squad positively identified a police pocket radio retrieved from Fredrick Leliman and whose signal has been traced to the alleged site of the murder. While asked by trial judge Jessie Lesiit, who held the gadget, the officer walked straight to the dock and identified Leliman. “I was given the radio which was recovered from the suspect and it was positive. It was the same one whose signal was retrieved from the Integrated Command Control and Communication System,” the officer said. Chemilil had last week told the court the signal of the pocket radio assigned to Leliman was first traced near the Mavoko law courts on June 23, 2016, at around midday. The signal was later traced at Syokimau police station and then within the Mlolongo area. At around 7pm, Chemilil said the signal moved towards Mombasa Road, before stopping in an open field. According to the officer, a signal from the same gadget was traced leaving the area and moving towards the Eastern Bypass and later connecting to the Thika Superhighway at a few minutes past midnight. Chemilil told the judge he and other police officers visited the area on July 4, 2016. “My lady, the site, which I later came to learn is at Soweto, was uniquely disturbed. The grass on location was disturbed,” he said. Leliman is on trial alongside Stephen Chebulet, Sylvia Wanjiku, Leonard Maina and police informer Peter Ngugi. The prosecution claims Kimani, Mwenda and Muiruri were killed and their bodies, which were stashed in gunny bags, thrown in the Ol Donyo Sabuk River on June 24, 2016. The prosecution says the three were kidnapped as they left the Mavoko law courts earlier in the day. They were held briefly at Syokimau police post before being taken to an open ground on Mombasa Road. While at Syokimau, the lawyer tried to call for help and even threw a tissue paper with a phone number asking for help.