For those who remember the events of 2007, when we almost grounded this country, what is happening today is not just annoying but also worrying. The aftermath of the 2007-08 post-election violence set this country back and should not be allowed to happen again. At the time, the country’s GDP growth dropped from an average of 6.5 per cent in 2007 to a low of 2 per cent in 2008. In fact, in 2009, we hit a low of 0.5 per cent as the aftermath of the violence sunk in and it was only in 2010 that we jumped back to our average 6.5 per cent growth. A lot of the violence was attributed to ODM, which is now part of NASA, after its leader Raila Odinga refused to accept the election result. NASA is set to send us back to the same downward spin as it continues to engage in non-productive and destructive activities. Instead of preparing for the presidential repeat election as ordered by the Supreme Court, the opposition is busy holding daily protests, escalated from thrice weekly. Siaya Senator James Orengo also said these protests will be daily. NASA has resorted to the constant demos to remove the IEBC, which is a constitutional institution, which cannot be removed in that manner. If we are critical as Kenyans, we should ask ourselves why NASA has targeted weekdays and not a single protest over the weekend. The answer is simple: NASA is engaged in economic sabotage, knowing very well weekday protests will disrupt the flow of business and thus affect the economy. We have seen them blocking roads and destroying property, including shops and markets that serve the ordinary mwananchi. They are not interested in an election or removal of the IEBC commissioners but the destruction of the economy. Despite the fact that President Uhuru Kenyatta had his legitimate victory snatched by the Supreme Court, he and the Jubilee Party have undertaken peaceful campaigns. In fact, Jubilee is now even attracting some key opposition personalities to its side as they have seen the real NASA agenda of chaos and destruction. Kenyans must ask themselves how and why it is possible that even after Raila and NASA won the court case, they have resorted to violence to put their message across. Additionally, Raila has resorted to attacking private sector organisations such as Safaricom, Safran OT Morpho with all manner of unfounded accusations. NASA has also sought to blame public institutions such as the IEBC and the military for their election loss, which was actually a result of their rudderless campaigns that had no agenda. NASA is clearly on a campaign of economic sabotage, aiming to create chaos, cripple the economy and force it to its knees. Their campaign is not for a free and fair election, rather to take power by all means necessary, and wreak chaos and havoc in their wake. In fact, there is a question about the fires that have broken out in Gikomba, Deep Sea, South B and part of Ziwani. These areas mostly have businesses owned by perceived Jubilee supporters, begging the question, who or what is the cause? Was it a coincidence that it was weeks away to the election? Who benefits from this kind of economic sabotage? Raila was out of the country giving a lecture in London, where as usual, he painted Kenya as a failed state. He often does this when he speaks to international media, in a tactic that appears aimed at scaremongering. His real intentions with this international campaign is to keep off investors who have been coming into Kenya in droves since President Uhuru came to power. Kenyans need to rise up against this kind of tyrannical behaviour from NASA and ensure the country gets back to its transformational path. One of the ways of doing this is giving a resounding defeat to NASA on October 26 by overwhelmingly voting for Uhuru again.     The writer is a political and communications consultant  @MachelWaikenda  