KIEMS cannot indicate the correct number of voters, an IEBC commissioner has said, noting figures are inaccurate and that forms 34B have to be used for verification.  Abdi Guliye announced this on Saturday evening saying: "The transmission by the kits will not be accurate in terms of absolute numbers. "For that reason, we will not rely on transmissions from the kits but use forms 34B which are arriving," he said. Guliye said they had to think of a solution after noticing the inaccuracy. He added: "We also know there is a complementary mechanism of voting whereby voters are allowed [to cast ballots] if they are in the register but cannot be identified biometrically or through IDs." Before the repeat elections, the Opposition had asked the electoral agency to audit French IT firm OT-Morpho. The firm was responsible for the re-configuration of 40,883 KIEMS kits after sealing an additional Sh2.4 billion deal with IEBC. Read: OT-Morpho starts formatting IEBC kits in new Sh2bn deal KIEMS kits have an integrated Voters Identification System, the Results Transmission System, and the candidates’ details. NASA National Campaign Chairman Musalia Mudavadi termed the Sh2.4 billion contract an "outrageous fraud" on Kenyans, since it was single-sourced and overpriced. More on this: KIEMS review, Chiloba out: NASA gives IEBC list of demands for poll The Amani National Congress leader, maintained that it was irregular and unethical for IEBC to award the lucrative tender to a firm facing integrity questions regarding alleged rigging of the August 8 polls. But the French Firm said it was ready to deliver a credible election. It said an external audit showed its systems were secure during the August election, contrary to Opposition allegations. The firm said it hired a Top 3 IT company worldwide to conduct an external audit. It had previously conducted two internal audits and one more by an independent expert. The report has been shared by the IEBC, which said it would be difficult to guarantee a credible election. Read: It's hard to guarantee free election, IEBC won't tolerate threats - Chebukati