From the outset, NASA’s presidential petition was a fishing expedition. But not only was their fishing rod bent and their bait inedible, they actually cast their fishing rod in barren waters. The last-minute attempt to gather “evidence” on alleged hacking of the results transmission system points to petitioners desperate to overturn an election through devious machinations. The world over, the threshold of proof required to overturn an election is fundamentally hinged on a petitioner demonstrating to the court that an electoral irregularity substantially impacted on the result. In fact, what was vehemently contested in the presidential election petition was the method through which results were transmitted from the polling stations to the National Tallying Centre, not the results. The results, tallied and agreed on by both Jubilee and NASA agents at the polling station, were not challenged. As cited by one of the Supreme Court judges, Section 83 of the Evidence Act, 2011 specifically requires that no election shall be declared void by reason of non-compliance with written law, if it appears that the election was conducted in accordance with the Constitution and with written law or that the non-compliance did not affect the result of the election. Undoubtedly, the nullification of the presidential election on the basis of hitches in the transmission of election results has confounded the globe and irked millions of voters who feel their will was trashed on contrived grounds. How can a process used to transmit results for tallying upset the will of the electorate? The fact that hitches in the electoral process were a result of delays orchestrated by the petitioner in cahoots with civil society, through filing endless courts cases, is not lost to the public. This has given credence to the claim that NASA and civil society, using the courts, managed to hamstring the IEBC in its preparation for the election to achieve a premeditated outcome. Undeniably, there were electioneering challenges that the IEBC had to surmount. But through the foresight of the commission’s legal counsel, these challenges were circumvented within the confines of the law. One of the contestations presented by petitioners was that Form 34C used to declare the winner of the presidential election did not bear security features. It is worth noting that such a form could have been forged to intentionally give the impression of wrongdoing on the part of the hunted. In fact, the main reason that delayed the announcement of the presidential results was that the Secretariat had to ascertain that all Forms 34B used to arrive at Forms 34C were verified by all presidential agents. To this end, all agents of the various political parties were at the National Tallying Centre to verify the forms before the numbers were aggregated. For polling stations that could not transmit images of Forms 34A due to poor internet connectivity, the forms were physically transported to the Constituency Tallying Centre. Even at the preliminary level of the constituency, agents of all candidates had to verify all Forms 34B before they were relayed to the National Tallying Centre. Another gripe by the petitioner was that the presidential results were announced before all Forms 34A were transmitted. Indeed, in a letter to the petitioner, the IEBC admitted that about 10,000 Forms 34A had not been physically delivered to the National Tally Centre at the time of announcing the winner of the presidential race. However, physical delivery of Forms 34A to the National Tallying Centre is not a precondition for announcing the presidential results. This did not in any way impugn on the integrity of the results as verification at the Constituency Tallying Centre ensured the results on Forms 34B were consistent with the figures in the Forms 34A. The Supreme Court ruling now means that in future presidential elections, the IEBC will have to ensure that all 34As are available at the National Tallying Centre before declaring the winner. For areas that cannot scan and electronically transmit, a complementary mechanism will have to be established to physically deliver the forms. With the foregoing, the test of invalidating an election must be based on a petitioner providing adequate proof that results were tampered with as opposed to contestations on processes, particularly given that the method that midwifed the August 8 results is a crossbreed of predominantly manual and electronic processes. As one of the judges figuratively stated, Kenya’s electoral process is a “rather ugly grouchy and reluctant mongrel of two very distinct processes.” Though the Supreme Court delivered its ruling, the public jury is still out. Going by the economic turbulence fast gaining pace and the prevailing election standoff, I doubt history will be kind to any Russian Roulette meddler putting at risk the future of this nation. Gikuru is a Nairobi-based lawyer