Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa has urged wizards and witches from the county to unleash their power to stop the repeat of presidential election scheduled for October 26. Jumwa on Friday said the election if held without any reforms will be a mockery to democracy. Speaking in Mwarakaya Village in Chonyi, Kilifi county, Jumwa urged any resident who can use the black magic to stop the election to go ahead and save the country from the tyranny of the Jubilee leadership. “I know we have people who can do this. Please send bees to any person who will wake up to go and vote. Let the bees invade their bodies so that they fail to go and vote,” Jumwa said. She said the region is well known for practicing witchcraft and this was the right time to use it in seeking justice. All the seven MPs from Kilifi county boycotted the Mashujaa day celebrations and instead accompanied the governor Amason Kingi in a tour of Ganze and Kilifi south constituencies to urge residents to boycott the repeat election by staying in their homes. Ken Chonga (Kilifi south), Owen Baya (Kilifi north), Teddy Mwambire, (Ganze) and William Kamoti (Rabai) were among the MPs present. Others were Paul Katana (Kaloleni) and William Kingi (Magarini). They warned that if the election is held and Uhuru re-elected they will use constitutional means to make sure the coast region secede from the rest of Kenya. “The coast region has over 5 million people and about 1.5 registered voters. We are asking you not to go out on the 26th to vote. We asked for reforms before the election is held but the government did not heed our call," Baya said. He said, "If they go ahead with this election we will table a motion to secede. Kenya subscribes to international laws which allows us to apply for secession if we feel oppressed by our country". His sentiments were echoed by governor Kingi who said the region will have to manage its own affairs. Kingi said as coast leaders, they cannot sit to watch the region being marginalized. “We will not fight nor shed any blood. We will use all legal means to make sure we gain our freedom," he said. Kingi said If the rest of Kenya does not want the coast region then they will be forced to start thinking on how they will have their own country. Any person threatening to disrupt the presidential repeat polls next week will be dealt with according to the law, President Uhuru has warned. The President said enough police officers have been deployed in every corner of the country to protect those willing to vote This is after the opposition announced that it will boycott the polls unless several demands, including the sacking of IEBC CEO Ezra Chiloba, are met. Read:Don't dare disrupt the polls, Uhuru warns Raila during Mashujaa fete