In a dimly lit room, naked men sit in silence sweating out toxins, oblivious of the fact that they are interfering with their sperm production. Men visit saunas and hot baths for relaxation or after a sweaty day at the gym. What they do not know is that exposure to the high temperatures in steam rooms can kill sperms and interfere with sperm production, potentially resulting in weak or low sperm count, thus making them infertile. While the normal body temperature is 37°C, the scrotum needs between 35.5°C and 36°C to operate normally. Dr Arnold Makori, a gynaecologist with a special interest in fertility, explains that for sperms to be formed, they need a conducive environment, unlike ovaries in a woman. Sperms, he says, are very sensitive to hormones and temperatures, and that is why the testes are located outside the human body. Makori explains that the testes’ temperatures could rise if the scrotum is squeezed on the body for a long time, for instance due to tight pants or by exposing the testes to excessive heat, like in saunas and steam baths. The sauna emits dry air and a high temperature of over 80°C. “In order for testes to produce sufficient quality and quantity of sperm, the temperature of testes must be lower than the core body temperature. They need at least one or two degrees lower than the 37 degrees in the body,” he said. COMMON OR NOT? Makori describes male infertility as the inability of a man to make a fertile woman pregnant. This, he says, has been confused with impotent, which is the inability of a man to initiate or maintain an erection to achieve a pregnancy or sexual satisfaction. Available data shows that about 40 per cent of men above 40 years will suffer from male factor infertility and it increases to 70 per cent above 70 years. Makori says there are different incidences of male factor infertility worldwide and locally, but it is rare in Kenya. Dr Gitobu Mburugu, a urologist at the Kenyatta National Hospital, disagrees, saying male infertility is common, as it accounts for a third of all causes of infertility. It is, however, easier to deal with male factor infertility because it is simple to reverse, compared to female infertility. “For one to be infertile, it must not be zero sperms, and even if they produced one sperm, it is enough to cause fertilisation. We can easily pick that sperm and inject it. And when men come for semen analysis, we urge them to abstain for a period of 72 hours,” the doctor said. Dr Gitobu says the problem of infertility as defined by sperm criteria might be due to what is known as Azoospermia, meaning there is no sperm at all. Azoospermia can be divided into two broad categories. There is obstructive Azoospermia, which means the sperms are being produced normally inside the testicle, but there is a blockage or obstruction in the reproductive tubing preventing the sperm from flowing to the outside world. Then there is non-obstructive Azoospermia, which means the tubes are open but there is a sperm production problem, where either no sperm are produced at all or there is a very low level of sperm production. This level is often so low that the sperms never make it all the way out of the testicle and can only be found inside the testicle during surgery. In cases where men have few sperms, Dr Gitobu says it can be reversed through assisted fertilisation, but if there is failure of the testes to produce sperms, then there is very little that can be done. On the other hand, if the testes are producing sperm but there is a blockage, one can conduct surgery to repair the ducts, which is very difficult and very specialised surgery that’s the province of a few people. The other option is to aspirate sperms directly from the testes and give them to a fertility specialist who can store them or use them to form babies. INFERTILITY CAUSES He adds that problems with the production and maturation of sperm are the most common causes of male infertility. Sperm may be immature or abnormally shaped, unable to move properly, or be produced in abnormally low numbers. This problem may be caused by many different conditions, including infectious diseases or lifestyle factors. A sperm’s ability to move forward rapidly and straight is probably the most significant determinant of male fertility. Factors relating to male infertility include pre-testicular, testicular and post testicular. Pre-testicular are factors that affect the normal hormonal regulation of the testicle, which includes obesity, low testosterone, medications, steroids, narcotics and alcohol. Testicular factors, on the other hand, refers to conditions that affect normal sperm production by the testicle. Examples include undescended testicles, cigarette or marijuana smoke, trauma to the testicle, prior chemotherapy, genital infections and infectious diseases, the mump virus and environmental and lifestyle factors. Post-testicular factors that affect the ability of the sperm to travel from the site of production (testicle) to leave the body in the ejaculate are vasectomy, hernia repair, ejaculatory duct abnormalities, genital tract infection, genetic factors and erectile dysfunction. Both doctors advised men to avoid alcohol, frequent visits to the sauna, smoking and drug abuse because they compromise the strength of a man’s erection and fertility, lower sperm count and slow down sperm mobility. ALCOHOL’S EFFECT Dr Gitobu said alcohol lovers should try reduce the intake, as it messes up the liver, which is important in hormonal functions. “If a liver is destroying or turning most of your male hormone testosterone into estrogen or inactive forms, then there lies the problem. Alcohol also increases your fat deposit, because alcohol is basically a carbohydrate,” he said. “But there is no absolute in medicine. You may find out that those who drink a lot are the most fertile, but the trend is that if you drink a lot, it will affect your sperm quality.” The body, Dr Makori said, needs testosterone to form sperms. Alcohol reduces the level of testosterone, yet a man needs a high concentration of testosterone in the testicles for sperms to be formed. “Alcohol destroys sperms, especially the ability of the sperm to penetrate and fertilise the ovum. Smoke also destroys Celia in the body, and movement of sperm is interfered with when one smokes,” he said. Both doctors said sperm formation is controlled all the way from the brain through the blood stream to the testes. So anything that affects the pathway will affect sperm production. Dietary issues also interfere with sperm production. Dr Makori said there are vitamins and Zinc supplements that promote sperm production. If the body lacks enough of Vitamins B, C and A, then a man is said to have a deficiency in production of sperms. The foods rich in Vitamins B are beef liver, eggs, lamb, sardines, salmon and grass-fed beef. Those in Vitamin C are oranges, red peppers, kale, broccoli, strawberries, grapefruit, guava, kiwi and green peppers, while those rich in Vitamin A include carrots, sweet potatoes, kale, spinach, apricots, butter, eggs and beef liver. TIGHT PANTS, MASTURBATION The other issues are things that people consume either involuntarily or voluntarily, in the sense that there are people who take anabolic steroids. Anabolic is a synthetic steroid hormone that resembles testosterone in promoting the growth of muscle. Such hormones are used medicinally to treat some forms of weight loss and (illegally) by some athletes and others to enhance physical performance. Then there is STDs, tuberculosis, mumps, leprosy — anything affecting the testes will interfere with sperm production. Also wearing tight trousers or underwear may overheat the testicles, affecting the sperm-producing cells, thus lowering sperm count. Both doctors advised that men wear loose-fitting boxers instead of tight underwears. For those who masturbate, frequent masturbation decreases the quality and amount of a man’s sperm, and it will not help in improving one’s sperm quality. The quality of the sperms is affected in that they are abnormal and weak. Some appear to have no tail, but with large, small, tapered or crooked heads. Sperms with curled or double tails are less likely to swim through the fallopian tubes to fertilise an egg. In such cases, it is important to let the penis rest and give it adequate time for the prostrate glands to regenerate. Dr Gitobu said another big but preventable cause of infertility is torsion of the testes, which happens to children around puberty age. Torsion (twisting) of the testes happens when the spermatic cord, which provides blood flow to the testicle, rotates and becomes twisted. The twisting cuts off the testicle’s blood supply and causes sudden pain and swelling. Normally, the testicles can’t move freely inside the scrotum. Once they twist, Dr Gitobu, says they have to be untwisted within six hours. If surgery is not performed, the young man remains with no testes and it eventually leads to infertility. The other major reason for male infertility is undescended testes, which occurs when one or both testicles fails to move into the scrotum before birth. If one has such and especially if it is bilateral and not brought down within year 2 of their life, then that testes stops producing sperms. “Before a man is born, their testes are in the belly, but they later drop into the scrotum, and if that does not happen and they are arrested somewhere before they reach the scrotum, then those testes must be surgically delivered into the scrotum before one is two years old. If not brought down, they become useless irreversibly for producing sperm,” Dr Gitobu said. Most of the time, a boy’s testicles descend by the time he is nine months old. Undescended testicles are fairly common in infants who are born early. The problem occurs less often in full-term infants. BIKERS AT RISK? Regarding the fears that come with boda boda riders and cyclers, Dr Makori said they are indeed true, as cyclers and boda boda riders can become infertile. “There is a positive co-relation between overheating that area (the testicles) and low sperm production. We find boda boda riders, long distance drivers, people who cycle a lot because of the nature of their work — they tend to accumulate high temperatures in that area, and thus there is low production,” he said. Dr Gitobu, however, held a different view. He said boda boda riders and cyclers only suffer from erectile dysfunction because of the compression of the nerves, not infertility. In terms of treatment, the doctors said it is unfortunate that most insurance firms don’t cover infertility cases, yet the cost of surgeries and fertilisation is on the higher side. The surgeries range from Sh300,000 to Sh600,000, and not many people can afford such amounts, and it also has a high failure rate. Dr Gitobu said it would be helpful if insurance firms began to cover such conditions. One challenges that comes with infertility is that treatment options are limited. Both doctors hoped that a time will come when insurance companies cover for both male and female infertility. There are also few specialists willing to take up infertility cases. Both doctors said people should take more care to examine children when they are born to ensure they do not have undescended testes, and even if they do, they need to be repaired in time. Health care workers, they said, should also be made made aware of the testicular torsion. The other big issue is that most men do not seek help because of the social stigma attached to infertility, yet most of their causes can be reversed, unlike women. Dr Gitobu said until men can come out and accept to be helped, then there will always be a problem. “Men should first accept that they have the problem and not live in denial. I don’t know why our African traditional culture equates a man with the amount of sex and children he can sire. Once one has psychological issues, then it makes it even worse,” he said. On the flip side, Dr Makori said the future is bright following the ability or availability of in-vitro-fertilisation (IVF), where one can directly harvest their sperms from the testicles and inject them to a hormone and achieve fertilisation. “Medical doctors are now working on how they can harvest germ cells from the skin of men, grow them and try to achieve mature sperms, as sperm production is just playing with DNA to modify it into a sperm cell,” he said. The experiment, he said, cannot be done in Kenya, as there are no definite laws on fertilisation since the bill is still in Parliament. “We are not allowed to play with people’s DNA because at some point, it will amount to cloning,” he said.