The bungled anti-terror operation that ended in the death of billionaire industrialist Bunty Shah has sparked off a vicious row in the top echelons of the police service. Senior police commanders, among them of the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, Administration Police and the regular police, have distanced themselves from the operation and made it clear at a top security meeting on Monday that they would not carry the blame. They want their boss, Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet, to come out clean on the operation as they were neither consulted nor informed of the raid. It has since emerged the key security chiefs, who ordinarily would have been involved or informed, were in the dark and only the IG was aware of the operation. Yesterday, highly placed sources told of their dismay after Boinnet owned up to the mess that has cast the police in a bad light. They insisted no officers from the Kenya Police, DCI or AP were involved in the operation, despite the admission by the IG that policemen were involved. Bunty was shot dead under unclear circumstances by gunmen dressed in police uniform. The gunmen are said to have stormed his home at the junction of Peponi and General Mathenge Drive last Sunday at 3am. They came in three Prados without registration numbers and an armoured car, which was used to break down the gate. Last Sunday, hours after the shooting, Boinnet, through spokesman George Kinoti, issued a statement in which he acknowledged the operation was conducted by a special team of officers. Yesterday, the spokesman declined to comment on the latest development and said the matter was under investigation. Yesterday, indepth interviews conducted by the Star with security operators revealed the bungled operation was conducted and sanctioned by Military Intelligence officers jointly with officers from the National Intelligence Service. Under section 42 of the Security Amendment laws 2014, NIS is mandated to conduct covert operations in the interest of national security. It is under this act NIS officers planned and conducted the raid.