Muthoni the Drummer Queen, popularly known as MDQ, is one of the illest femcees the Kenyan music industry has ever seen. Word Is caught up with her and chatted on all manner of topics, including her relationship status, the upcoming Africa Nouveau Festival and her music. “I’ve been dating the same wonderful guy for long, and I feel really grateful because he has been really instrumental in my life. You know when you are a risk-taker and you have a supporter in the corner and he is like, don’t worry, I gat this. I believe in being who you are and creating dopeness. I’m really grateful, he really does believe in the empowerment of women.” So, is it somebody we know? “No, you don’t know him, he is a graphic and fashion designer, and he is like cool, calm and chilled. I was never going to date someone who is in the public eye.” Muthoni told Word Is she has not heard any damaging rumours about her relationship or sexuality and has managed to keep her relationship on the low. “It is God’s protection. I don’t find myself being dragged into rumours and I don’t overshare our life. Even if a rumour pops up about my relationship, it’s obviously a lie. We pray a lot together for our work and for our needs. I just feel like we are protected from a lot of things.” She is currently ruling the airwaves with the song Million Voice, one that is among the many songs she in her-yet to-be-launched album “The album is called ‘She’. I really wanted to represent all the women. Like my mum is a career teacher, I wanted to honour her and other women like her. Every song in the album has a lead character and it’s about Kenyan messages. I really got inspired by all the women that raised their voice like Wangari Maathai. I believe that women run the world. The artwork is fascinating. Expect a lot of surprises.” Talking about the Africa Nouveau Festival, the Kama Kawaida hitmaker called on all Kenyans to attend one of the most creative events the country has ever seen. “We want to get something to manifest the Kenyan culture and let the world come here and see all these wonderful ideas and how amazing we are. Camping, the music never ends, an incredible fashion market, yoga, rhumba, there’s renewable energy area, expect a lot. You will have an experience of what a festival means.”