Any person threatening to disrupt the presidential repeat polls next week will be dealt with according to the law, President Uhuru has warned. The President said enough police officers have been deployed in every corner of the country to protect those willing to vote. This is after the opposition announced that it will boycott the polls unless several demands, including the sacking of IEBC CEO Ezra Chiloba, are met. NASA leader Raila Odinga has been leading the Opposition supporters in demonstrations against the IEBC saying they will be no elections on the October 26th. Four people have been killed and seven arrested since the anti-IEBC protests begun but the figure is far less than the one released by Amnesty International, that placed the number of deaths to at least 33. More on this: Police dispute Amnesty report detailing 33 post-election killings "To those threatening and intimidating the IEBC, this must cease forthwith. We must trust and safeguard our institutions to enable them to grow," Uhuru said when he addressed Kenyans at the Mashujaa fete on Friday. Uhuru said Kenyans must abide by the rule of law adding that Kenyans must desist from divisive acts ahead of October 26 vote. "Those who cause chaos and anarchy, your days are numbered... the law will sanction you accordingly. An election is a one-time event and must not divide Kenyans," he said. The president said the government is ready to counter any threats during and after the elections. "To this end, our security organs have been enhanced and deployed to maintain law and order. The law will apply equally to all regardless of social class and political position. No one will be spared," he said. Uhuru said having had an interrupted election for the second time his government will not allow lives to be lost again. "For those planning to vote and those staying away I urge you to extend a hand of friendship to neighbours and respect each others choice," he said. He urged Kenyans to turn up in large numbers and vote for him adding that his track record can be visibly seen by all Kenyans. "I appeal to all Kenyans to vote me back in office for another five years. With your continued support we can achieve better results in our second term," he said. "Turn up in large numbers, your votes will be your contribution to the dream of our forefathers." Uhuru said Kenya cannot stay in a permanent state of elections noting that the economy must move on. "It's my appeal to every Kenyan to exercise their rights on Thursday. Those who want to vote must be allowed to vote our country must move forward," he said. He further said his government will establish a hero's council that will support the heroes. "They will come up with solutions of welfare and support the heroes and heroines," he said. Deputy William Ruto said it was because of freedom fighters that Kenya enjoys the freedom that it has. "We go back to the ballot to defend our right to choose, to defend our democracy, to defend our constitution," he said. Read: Mombasa residents tensed ahead of repeat polls Also read; 'Bullets, teargas won't stop us': Raila calls mega demos on October 26