IEBC chief executive officer Ezra Chiloba is still in office contrary to reports that he has taken a three-week leave, NASA leader Raila Odinga said on Monday. "Today at exactly 7am, Chiloba was in office. He is still in office as we speak. We will not be treated as fools," the ODM leader said during a tour of Kisii county.  He said the move by the IEBC CEO to take leave was to hoodwink NASA to participate in Thursday’s election. Raila also welcomed commissioner Roselyne Akombe's resignation as they rallied their supporters to stay away from polling stations. "Akombe feared for her life since she did not agree with what was happening at the Commission." "She was threatened and she feared she would be killed like was in the case of Chris Musando," Raila added. He urged NASA supporters to remain in their homes and not participate in the election. "No reforms, no election. On Thursday, I am appealing to all our supporters to remain in their respective homes," he said. "Do not board that Jubilee bus that is taking you to hell. Wait for the Canaan express bus driven by NASA," the Opposition leader said. Raila was accompanied by Governors John Nyagarama (Nyamira), James Ongwae (Kisii), and Okoth Obado (Migori). Kisii senator Sam Ongeri, his Nyamira counterpart Okong’o O'Mogeni and Kisii woman representative Janet Ong'era were also present.  Nairobi woman representative Esther Passaris, former Kitutu Chache South MP Richard Onyonka, and Kisii deputy governor Joash Maangi were also there.  Raila said reiterated in Keroka town that he is not ready to take part in the elections unless reforms are carried out in the IEBC. "When the Supreme Court nullified President Uhuru Kenyatta's victory, Chief Justice David Maraga said the fresh Presidential election should be done in accordance with the law, but the Jubilee government want to do it with their own consent."  The NASA leader further alleged that the Dubai-based printing firm Al Ghurair printed two million extra ballot papers in favor of Uhuru.  The opposition chief also questioned the manner in which the presidential results were transmitted. He said Chiloba was to leave office before any preparations were laid down for the fresh election slated for Thursday. Okoth Obado said the government should not allow acting Interior CS Fred Matiangi to misuse security officers in favour of Jubilee.  "Matiang'i should get it clear that our security officers are meant to protect Kenyans and not to be used for political gains." Wanga said nothing will happen in the country on Thursday, adding that only Uhuru's birthday will be celebrated.  Ongeri said Kenyans should not take the Jubilee road because it is closed ahead. "Kenya is bigger than Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto. Do not go out to vote," Ongeri said. More on this: It's hard to guarantee free election, IEBC won't tolerate threats - Chebukati