A stable climate is a vital foundation for all life on Earth. With the majority of the Kenyan population engaging in a daily struggle to make a living, it can be difficult to find time to think about some of the bigger issues of our age; and they do not come bigger than climate change and sustainability of our environment. If we continue to act as we are currently, then climate modelling predicts a two to five degree Celsius increase in ambient temperature by 2050. The projected impact of this higher climate range is devastating. We often think that this will be in the future, however, it has already begun. We are seeing more extreme weather events, such as the recent hurricanes in the US, wildfires in Portugal and the drought here in Kenya. Kenya has been vulnerable to direct and indirect impacts of climate change. We now face more erratic weather, hotter temperatures, unpredictable rainfall, increased incidences of drought and floods, and more pests and diseases, such as the recent cholera outbreak. This vulnerability is aggravated by the fact that a greater proportion of the population has livelihoods that depend on climate-sensitive economic production, such as rain-fed agriculture. Whilst the government is faced with needs, such as those associated with poverty alleviation and economic growth, there is an even more urgent need to incorporate long-term thinking about climate risks into existing planning decisions and policy processes. Policymakers should ascertain that 2017 is the last year that drought is declared a national disaster. There are two broad strategies that can be adopted. First is adaptation. This aims to develop strategies to cope with the effects of climate change. Where the economy is concerned, climate change not only poses risks, it also presents significant opportunities. Such opportunities arise from the need for innovation in resilient materials and services, new weather and climate analytics, climate-resistant seeds, crops, and farming methods. It opens up many avenues for industry to develop low-emission, more climate-friendly technologies. It provides opportunities for insurers to develop new insurance products as an incentive to pursue resilience. The second strategy is mitigation. This aims to minimise the impact of climate change by decreasing the production of greenhouse gases and other pollutants. The business sector comprising investors, banks and other financial service providers would play a significant role in mitigation through three ways. These include: Increasing finance flows into low-carbon energy and climate-resilient infrastructure; decreasing the flow of finance to carbon-intensive and obsolete technologies and business practices; and collaborating with regulators to ensure that rules that govern financial markets are conducive to sustainable development. Some of the individual actions you can take to help tackle climate change include: saving energy by switching off and unplugging appliances when not in use, using energy-efficient lighting, buying energy-efficient appliances, choosing climate-friendly transportation such as walking or riding your bike, car sharing and using public transport, among others.   David Karimi is a risk management expert.