Two weeks ago, President Uhuru Kenyatta assented to the Supplementary Budget, which allocates Sh25 billion to free secondary school education. The programme will be implemented in January. The Jubilee administration pledged to make secondary school education free in its 2017-22 manifesto. Whilst primary school education is already free, it’s hoped that making secondary school education easily accessible will reduce the number of dropouts. The NG-CDF and county bursaries have been unable to address the challenges parents face in paying school fees. Some students have been forced to drop out of school because their parents could not afford the required fees. The move by Jubilee will therefore go along way in ensuring all children — regardless of their background — get equal opportunities to study. Parents should now be at ease because the government is almost funding education from primary school to university. University students as well as those in tertiary institutions receive funding from the government through the Higher Education Loans Board — this is for students in private and public institutions. It is for parents, guardians as well as the community leadership, including the local administration and religious leaders, to ensure that children are enrolled in school come January. School dropouts should also be readmitted. About one million pupils are sitting the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education examination and in January, approximately the same number will transition to secondary schools. All that we need as parents, guardians, government and other stakeholders is to ensure that all these candidates proceed to secondary school and polytechnics for those who will not perform well. In 2016, the Jubilee administration rolled out a Sh3.2 billion programme in which all candidates have their national exam fees paid. It is envisaged that by 2030, we will be a developed country. To achieve that, educating the young people, who will drive our economy, is important. It almost goes without saying that the more students who complete a full course, the more potential technology and other industries will benefit. Both the national and the county governments have invested a lot of money in development projects such as roads and mechanisation of agriculture. The workforce for these initiatives will come from our educated youth. This calls for an increased transition rate from primary to secondary school across all the counties to meet the anticipated middle- and high-level manpower requirements. Despite the introduction of the Free Primary Education by President Mwai Kibaki, the transition rate to the secondary level in some counties is still low. This could be attributed to any number of factors, including cultural, environmental, school-based or socioeconomic. But with the progress we are making as a country, this is set to change. More families have embraced education. The huge task that now lies ahead is the need for expansion of infrastructure in primary and secondary schools, and recruitment of more teachers to offer quality education. These were the main challenges the Free Primary Education programme faced. Those mistakes must not be repeated next year. Since the onset of devolution, the counties invested millions of shillings in building nursery schools, which is part of their mandate. This has seen many children enrolled at this level. Unfortunately, their transition to primary level has been poor since there are not sufficient classrooms to accommodate them. Perhaps it is time the two levels of governments agree to devolve the infrastructure aspect of education. At the moment, the counties are not allowed to budget for the construction of classrooms in primary and secondary level. It is time the counties got this function, with the help of the national government.  Gilgil MP  