The report, prepared by the independent professional body,
highlights the opportunities AI presents, challenges facing actualization of
its application in accounting activities, and how it could revolutionize
business.
 Digital technology and digital
connectivity are fundamental to the future of every industry, from
transportation to banking to retail and health care, in developed and
developing economies alike. Some financial institutions have been investing in
Artificial Intelligence for years while other firms are now beginning to catch
up thanks to advances in big data, open-source software, cloud computing, and
faster processing speeds.
 AI systems have the capability to absorb and analyze large
sets of data to enable better and more efficient decision-making. This in turn
enables company management to make informed decisions on how to deploy
organizational resources based on accurate financial results. This subsequently
improves the quality of business and investment decisions. Although AI does not
seek to entirely replicate human intelligence, on a task-by-task basis, AI
systems increasingly produce results that are more accurate and consistent than
those produced by humans.
 “Despite its challenges, AI presents great opportunities for
business and the accounting profession,” said ICAEW Regional Director,
Middle East, Africa and South Asia, Michael Armstrong, “There is need to
encourage debate, interaction and learning between technology experts,
businesses and the profession to reimagine the way that we solve fundamental
business problems with the help of new technologies.”
 The constant use and growth of artificial intelligence has
tons of companies going head over heels in an effort to create better, more
functional tech. Accounting software is getting smarter,
automatically performing analysis, which previously required human
intervention. Consider tasks like bank reconciliation: systems can learn how to
completely automate this infuriating job, freeing up your time. The finance
sector, given its heavy reliance on mass amounts of numbers and data, is a
prime candidate for the automation offered by intelligent learning systems.
 The adoption of AI systems will greatly enhance the
accounting profession both in the short and medium terms. Firstly, AI systems
will bring many opportunities for accountants to improve their efficiency,
provide more insight and deliver more value to businesses. As more accounting
firms embrace AI, this could lead to an increase in employment opportunities as
accountants will need to be involved in the development of the new systems.
 Accountants’ skillset will also widen, presenting higher
efficacy within the profession. In the longer term, AI raises opportunities for
greater impact, as systems increasingly take over decision-making tasks
currently done by humans.
 As much as adoption of AI will fundamentally improve
accounting practices, it also poses various challenges. For example, AI
investments will likely focus on areas with the biggest financial impact such
as cost reduction opportunities, or those that are crucial for competitive
positioning, since adoption of AI systems is costly.
 AI can read many thousands of pages of contracts or
agreements and very quickly summarise those, virtually instantly, based on
whatever criteria you give it on what is and isn’t interesting. In
simple terms, technology won’t just collect information, it’ll learn from what
it stores.
 This is likely to lock out beneficial ventures that lack the
financial capabilities to run the systems. Furthermore, the volume and quality
of data available within an organization is crucial to the success of AI
systems. This is likely to affect smaller organizations, which may not have
enough data to enable accurate results. Privacy and ethics pose another challenge,
especially where AI systems are drawing on personal data. Fraud detection, for
example, may need to access emails sent by employees, which will encounter
legal and ethical limits.
  “The increasing prevalence of AI
systems will mean potentially seismic changes for business as we know it, as
increasingly tasks that have been done by people are able to be taken on by
machines. However, in the longer term, we believe this will enable finance
professionals to concentrate on strategic planning and the areas where they can
add real value. We shouldn’t pretend that this technology is without
challenges. But it is coming, and businesses that prepare to embrace it will be
best placed to take advantage of the new business environment,”
said Armstrong.