Three days after violence broke out in Kawangware, tension was still high on Sunday despite heavy police presence and pleas for calm by leaders. Groups allied to the opposition vowed to continue "fighting Jubilee", and a slight provocation could ignite a clashes between communities allied to NASA and the ruling party. Unarmed youths took positions at the 56 area, while others lined along the streets observing the situation as police patrolled the area. The youths were keenly observing cars passing by in the area to know the occupants. At 56, the youths said they were waiting to chase Jubilee leaders after reports went round that Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko and other leaders would visit those affected by the violence that started on Thursday night before escalating on Friday afternoon. "We are waiting for Sonko here. We want to teach him that we don't want anything to do with Jubilee," a NASA supporter said. Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu, Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria and Dogeretti South MP John Kiarie also visited the affected areas. There were very few traders outside the Kawangware market, partly displaying their wares. Most shops and financial institutions remained closed, while matatus were parked at strategic places considered safe. There was little movement. At Congo area, where some business premises were razed down on Friday, the youths allied to NASA were on rampage after Raila Odinga left the area, calling out members of the outlawed Mungiki sect for a clash. It was claimed that members of one community were relying on the proscribed group for protection and the group carried a retaliatory attack on Friday evening. On Friday, several people were injured and property looted and burnt as panga- wielding youths clashed following differences over the Thursday repeat presidential election. Those whose houses were destroyed were being housed by friends. "No one will move. We are here to stay and there must be electoral reforms to guarantee fairness in a fresh election in three months," a boda boda rider said. NASA supporters said they will stop Jubilee's from celebrating the expected victory of President Uhuru Kenyatta. They chanted "Uhuru must go" as they dared his supporters to come out and celebrate his win. Although the clashes were linked to politics, interviews with the Nasa supporters indicated the fear for rise of cost of living was causing the opposition against the Jubilee government and opposition supporters were turning on their government counterparts to vent their anger. "They will tell us whether they will by Unga at Sh60 in Supermarkets because they are in Jubilee," James Muliro said. "We are ready and we will die fighting this government. Even if Wamalwa [Water CS Eugene Wamalwa] comes here, we will kill him."  Wamalwa was among the Jubilee leaders who was to tour the area.          