IEBC is set to announce results of the repeat presidential election today at 3.30 pm, Vice-chairperson Consolata Nkatha has said. Nkatha said the commission has received and verified Forms 34B from all the constituencies where people voted on October 26. She said the commission having completed the verification of forms 34B, has consulted widely on repercussion of announcing the results without the 25 constituencies in four counties of Siaya, Migori, Kisumu and Homa Bay. Nkatha said due to a breach of peace, the commission had postponed the repeat election to 28th October but was unable to conduct the election. "Due to sustained and escalating violence, the commission was unable to hold the polls in the said areas. We have widely consulted and reviewed the situation and have directed a return to elections," she said. She added, " having consulted, the announcement of the winner will not be affected by voting where it was postponed". Nkatha said the current political circumstances cannot determine an immediate practical time where the repeat election can be conducted in the said areas.  A higher number of security personnel at Bomas of Kenya. Politicians affiliated to Jubilee party and VIP chairs in a VIP lounge have also been seen at the venue. Speculation had it that the commission would have announced the results by Sunday evening and that President Uhuru Keyatta would be sworn-in today. NASA candidate Raila Odinga pulled out of the election saying faults at IEBC and is now leading a national resistance movement. He is expected to announce his next course of action. It had been said that the commission had not verified all Forms 34B from one constituency. Chebukati assured Kenyans the poll was conducted in a free, fair and transparent manner and that the process was "above board". Days before the vote, the chairman had said he could not guarantee a free, fair and credible election in light because of several challenges in his team. He even threatened to throw in the towel if a conducive environment was not guaranteed. But on Sunday Chebukati said all the issues the commission raised had been addressed and registered confidence in a transparent process. Read: Repeat polls above board, says Chebukati Also read: It's hard to guarantee free election, IEBC won't tolerate threats - Chebukati The chairman has not specified whether he will declare the winner without the remaining constituencies or hold on until the process is repeated. Jubilee MPs have been mounting pressure on the chairman to declare Uhuru winner on grounds that the four counties will not affect the outcome. More on this: Declare Uhuru president, delays will cause instability, Kimaiyo tells Chebukati