NASA MPs in Kakamega county skipped Monday’s anti-IEBC protests called by the alliance to protest against changing electoral laws and demand firing some IEBC staff. Their absence has created suspicions and left residents questioning whether Jubilee has induced them not to take part. NASA has eight of the 12 MPs in the county. Four were elected on the Jubilee ticket. Out of the eight, one said he was held up and another said he was waiting for his party’s position. Six did not return calls or respond to text messages sent to them yesterday. Kakamega youths, led by ANC youth leader Jeff Mwenje, said the six MPs’ absence casts doubt on their loyalty to NASA ideals. “We’re aware some NASA MPs collect handouts from Deputy President William Ruto’s Sugoi home to go slow on NASA campaigns,” Mwenje said. “We’ll soon shame them for betraying the will of voters.” Only county woman representative Elsie Muhanda and several MCAs joined the demonstrators.  Former Senator and Ford Kenya deputy leader Boni Khalwale led the protests. Governor Wycliffe Oparanya did not participate, but later said, “A commander doesn’t necessarily have to be on the streets.” Senator Cleophas Malala was restrained by police officers from leaving his house. Shinyalu MP Justus Kizito (ODM) said he skipped because he attended his sister-in-law’s burial. “We’re committed to this course and you’ll see us in full swing in the upcoming protests. Some of us were in Jubilee, left and we’re in NASA to stay,” he said. Lurambi MP Titus Khamala (ANC) said there was no clear party position and said he would comply with whichever decision the party makes. Musalia Mudavadi, a member of the NASA summit that supports the protests, is the ANC leader. “We did not sit down as ANC to take a party stand on the demonstrations. Communication on such an issue can’t be done through WhatsApp,” he said. “We need to sit down as a party and come up with a position.” Sources close to the six MPs said the legislators face financial constraints because they have not received their first salaries. They find it difficult to meet their needs and this might have contributed to their absence, despite their willingness to participate, the sources said.