Ekuru Aukot has said IEBC is "seriously incompetent" and can't hold credible polls under the current stalemate. The Thirdway Alliance presidential candidate said commissioners don't command confidence from the public. Aukot said he is gathering evidence to present to the Supreme Court for the nullification of the election should August 8 issues arise. He said IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati has confirmed the commission "is in tatters". "This is why we are pausing our campaigns to seek answers. Who is this political class frustrating IEBC? What is causing division? We want IEBC to give names," he said in Mombasa on Wednesday. In an address at Bomas of Kenya earlier, Chebukati asked commissioners implicated in the bungled election to resign. He said he will do whatever it takes to defend the constitution as far as the repeat election is concerned. More on this: Chebukati vows to defend constitution, asks implicated officials to resign Aukot said he and his running mate Emmanuel Nzai are apprehensive as their names have not been configured into KIEMS kits. "I talked to [IEBC CEO Ezra ] Chiloba yesterday and he denied the reports and said everyone is configured. We want this assurance in writing or else we will be moving to the Supreme Court," he said. NASA co-principal Musalia Mudavadi on Sunday said Chiloba admitted in his memo that they are not ready because only NASA chief Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta are configured. Chiloba said the commission only catered for Raila and Uhuru following the revision of the results transmission work flow. He said the TRS will only transmits election results from forms 34A and 34B from polling stations and constituency tallying centres. Chiloba said the forms 34B excel worksheet will however be revised to include all the seven candidates as appropriate in the order of names captured in the gazette notice. Read: IEBC locks out five as KIEMS only configured for Uhuru, Raila NASA AND JUBILEE CREATED CRISIS Aukot further said the current mess at IEBC is a creation of Jubilee and NASA, which he claimed prefer a commission they can control. "They want a perfect IEBC where commissioners and staff favour them," he said. The State House hopeful further said the coalitions tinkered with the law, through Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi and Siaya Senator James Orengo, to create the current crisis. He claimed that the commission which "bungled the August poll" was conceived from a political settlement and that Parliament rubber-stamped the resultant law. "Unpredictability is the creation of NASA and Jubilee and they can't runway," he said adding they are keen to "kill" a referee before a match. President Uhuru Kenyatta, DP William Ruto, Raila and other Opposition leaders have noted the consequences of the stalemate but blamed each other for it. The two sides have refused to hold talks and insist their rivals are taking advantage of Kenyans for selfish interests. Aukot said former IEBC boss Isaac Hassan and his team were shown the door after another political tinkering and brokering. "They are now trying to 'kill' Chebukati before a fresh election," he said, adding they have "issues" with IEBC and will not participate in next week's poll blindly. "If there will be mistakes, we will move to the Supreme Court again, we don't joke when we say this." Aukot said IEBC and the political class should not speculate or anticipate a bad election. He said it not up to politicians, but the court, to pronounce that a poll is a sham. "We cannot usurp power or the Supreme Court and decide that the election will be unfair," he said. Aukot said Raila and Uhuru must not participate in this poll. "We should adopt a Madagascar way where they have banned certain politicians from taking part in elections."