Anup Fulpher scored his maiden century in his sixth match in the NPCA Super League to lead defending champions Stray Lions to an emphatic 184 runs win over bottom-placed Kongonis yesterday. After failing to win a place in their last match against third-placed Swamibapa after a series of poor show with the bat, Fulpher retained his place in the first eleven with a run a ball 106 as the visitors posted 312 all out with 10 balls to spare at Nairobi Club. In reply, Kongonis failed to cope with some tight bowling from the visitors as they were all out for 128 with Shem Obado picking up 4 for 28 from his 10 overs. Coming into bat after Kongonis had reduced them to 11 for 2 in 17 balls, Fulper shared a second wicket stand of 151 with Abraham Vadada in 28 overs. The two took advantage of Kongonis’ lack of a specialist seam-bowler to get the scoreboard ticking. After settling for over 25 overs and the two set to post another huge score at the venue once again, Dolla Aballa (4 for 64) had Vadada caught on 65 from 80 balls. After the dismissal of Vadada, Fulpher reached his maiden century in the 37th over before he was caught off Tony Ochieng in the 41st over. But before his dismissal, Fulpher had put on a second wicket stand of 49 with Collins Obuya. Obuya was more brutal on the Kongonis bowlers scoring 60 from just 30 balls. He showed no mercy at all on the bowlers clobbering seven sixes on his way to the half century. He fell with four overs to play to youngster Stephen Muli Muli- the Eastleigh High School student was impressive with the bat picking 4 for 24 in just three overs. Apart from Obuya, the 15 year old East Africa Cricket Foundation product claimed the wickets of Neil Narvekar (100, Obado (6) and Nikhil Date (22). In the chase, Newton Muthee (21) and Angad Kohli were the only players that seemed to give a fight against Stray Lions bowling. While the two fell to unlucky dismissal, the other batsmen fell quickly to spinners with Obado the most executioner of the fall. The former Kongonis skipper cleaned up the tail with so much ease after Date (2 for 22) had reduced them to 10 for 2 in 5.3 overs. Abisheikh Chidambaram was also impressive with the ball claiming 2 for 48 from 10 overs. With the loss Kongonis continued being rooted at the bottom of the table while Stray Lions earned crucial points that put them four points behind leaders Kanbis who were hosting Ruaraka at Eastleigh High School.      