NASA principal Musalia Mudavadi has urged the international community not to accept the outcome of the presidential poll, terming it a fraud. He said it was undemocratic. “Jubilee has blindfolded them. They are unable to see the erosion of the will of the people through an illegal election carried out with aggressive dishonesty,” he said in a statement on Saturday. It became a nullity the day NASA flagbearer Raila Odinga and his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka withdrew, he said.  “Kenya is going through the birth pangs of a nascent dictatorship. Our partners have been hoodwinked to babysit the beginning of a repressive regime hell-bent on emasculating democratic institutions,” he said. “What the world is nurturing in Kenya is an assault on constitutionalism, rule of law and democratic governance,” Mudavadai said. “It began with the dismembering of the IEBC and now the Judiciary,” he said. Mudavadi doubts whether the West actually knows what it means for the region if Kenya slides into a lawless dictatorship. “Institutions that bind democracy are being mutilated yet they want us to be part of it. They are condoning embedding of power acquired dishonestly and maintained repressively,” he said. He said Jubilee was fixated with reconciling their fraudulent August 8 poll numbers, and the EBC was falsifying figures. “The magic number of 8 million is the driving force behind contradictory announcements by IEBC about the reality of low voter turnout,” Mudavadi said. “The IEBC chairman announced yesterday [Friday] the turnout in Nambale, Busia was 825 out of over 42,000. But by afternoon, the number changed to 22,000. They’ve abandoned the KIEMs kit and are using hand-delivered results that are easy to manipulate”, he said. Mudavadi said some foreign missions had attempted to goad NASA into participating in the poll. “We cannot participate to legalise an illegal process, he said. Mudavadi condemned an attempt to profile and repress the Luo and Luhya communities.  The election boycott was experienced across the country, there is a sinister plot to profile and isolate the Luo as rioters.  “Nyanza was isolated as a hotspot. It’s a dangerous trend of ethnic profiling for purposes of using brutal force on unarmed civilians. Ethnic cleansing is now targeted at the Luo and Luhya,” he said.  “They wanted us to participate for the sake of it, to appear as if election were held. But we knew that was bait to give an illegitimate election a veneer of legitimacy,” Mudavadi said.