If I was one of those brave people who could just start their lives all over again from scratch, I would take up photography in my second life. I love looking at photographs (professional photographs, I mean, not this other stuff we do with our phones and sometimes with our tablets), and I never miss an opportunity to attend photo exhibitions, whenever they’re in town.  I can’t quite put in words why I spend hours staring at work done by professionals, but I will reflect on why we like to look at pictures and why we take them in the first place.  The why we humans like to look at pictures of places, people, and things is easy to understand. Pictures are less of a cerebral strain; visuals are how we first come to learn of the world around us. As to the why we take photographs, that answer was a little harder to come by. And so, I turned to Google. Not surprisingly, I found lots of answers from lots of people, some of which are… well, see for yourself.  ‘Visual stimulation is a big part of taking pictures,’ says Erin. ‘I think we capture moments that capture us. We want to hold onto it, hoping it provides the same sense of wonder it did when we first found it.’ Erin sounds to me like a person who thinks too much. Gabriela said, ‘We take photographs because we don’t trust our memory.’ Someone named Leroy decided to say something unoriginal. ‘To create a visual record that will tell a fascinating story to future generations as well as bring back happy memories.’ One Marcus said: ‘To communicate a sense of identity to others.’ Funny man Ian: ‘Because life is short, can’t waste time painting.’ Amanda, apparently swept off her feet by her love for photography, said, ‘We take pictures to make the old new. We make pictures to create a possibility out of the impossible. Or is it impossibility out of the possible? To make stars….’ she goes on like this for a bit, talking about bubbles and lights and more stars. I stopped reading. Finally we have Ivan, who says, ‘So you can see things like I do.’ – This, I agree with. Reason being no two people see the external world in exactly the same way, but with a photograph… In his book, The Problem with Philosophy ( 1912 ), Bertrand Russell examines the table he sits at to write. He makes the observation that the table’s appearance changes in different light and from different positions. From this, he comes to the conclusion that perception, and the thing being perceived — in this case, the table — are separate. Imagine Russell’s table next to a window. It’s just a table, but at a certain time of day, with the light just right, it’s a table that draws the eye on account of its colour, the look of its texture in that light, and the way the shadow falls. Captured at that precise moment, by a professional photographer of course, you will see a beautiful table, exactly the same way the photographer sees it. Only in a photograph is it possible for two people to see the external world, in exactly the same way.