President Kenyatta has won more than 97 per cent of votes counted so far according to the media. Turnout has been estimated to be around 35 per cent. Deputy president William Ruto sought to wield the political guillotine and tweeted, “Evidently it doesn’t matter how powerful/popular one or their party imagines to be, the repeat elections confirm the PEOPLE ARE SUPREME.” I, for one, believe that the President won the first iteration of the election and that the Supreme Court whilst striking a blow for transparency and constitutionality failed entirely to weigh the consequences of their decision and to provide a Road-Map. However, what is clear is that we have now been overtaken by events and that the current political situation is one of disequilibrium.  Finding the path back to political equilibrium, a state in which opposing forces or influences are balanced. The maintenance of social equilibrium synonyms: balance, symmetry, equipoise, parity, equality; stability. The equilibrium of the economy antonyms: imbalance I stumbled over a rock and recovered my equilibrium is now the central question and in fact a sine qua non for the economy, which has slowed dramatically and where we need to absolutely avoid ''cliff-edge'' effects.  The Kenya Private Sector Alliance (KEPSA) said that the four-month electioneering period had cost the country $7 billion (sh726.6 billion) in losses. Investors at the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) have lost $2.27 billion (235.62 billion) over the past four weeks. We are growing at the slowest pace in six years. Anecdotal evidence is speaking to an average of 25 per cent to 30 per cent year on year turnover slump across Kenya. Economic indicators are blinking amber. I came across this comment from Eric Chitayi, a security guard in Kisumu in a Maggie Fick Reuters report. “People from this region are feeling isolated from the rest of the country, We are feeling disconnected.”  In his marvellous book The Tipping Point, Malcolm Gladwell talks about three different archetypes of people: mavens, connectors, and salespeople. The connectors according to Malcolm Gladwell make change happen through people. They galvanize people.They’re natural hubs. That’s just the way they’re oriented to the world.  President Kenyatta is a mercurial and popular politician. I recall a quote from someone speaking about President Bill Clinton who described meeting him thus;  ''President Clinton locked onto you and made you feel like you were the only person in the room.'' President Kenyatta has a similar political style and charisma. He will be the President of Kenya, a nation of more than 40 million citizens. The political reality and in fact his legacy is now going to be calibrated on how he reconnects People like Eric Chitayi. Everyone is a shareholder in this Kenya Inc enterprise or as Marshall McLuhan once said, ''There are no passengers on spaceship earth (read Kenya). We are all crew.'' This is a political imperative, the reconnection of 40 million Kenyans to Spaceship Kenya, without which we are going to continue sputtering.     