Nyandarua leaders have given foreign envoys a piece of their mind for criticising hurried passage of contentious election law amendments. They said the envoys are free to give their opinion about the electoral laws amendments, but Kenyans are not bound by the pronouncements they make. They are Nyandarua Senator Githiomi Mwangi, MPs David Kiaraho (Ol Kalou), Jeremiah Kioni (Ndaragwa), Michael Muchira (Ol Joro Orok), Amos Kimunya (Kipipiri) and Nyandarua woman representative Faith Gitau. They spoke on Sunday when they campaigned for President Uhuru Kenyatta in Ol Kalou.  Senator Githiomi said everyone knows Uhuru’s victory was stolen through the court. There’s nothing stopping Kenyans from passing these laws if war is to be avoided in the country. Githiomi termed the envoys’ concerns “hypocritical”, saying laws are passed daily in their countries. Kimunya said Kenya is a sovereign nation and has a Constitution that defines how the laws will be made. The IEBC, he said, is a major stakeholder and has agreed with 90 per cent of the amendments. “If the envoys feel there is something they could do for their countries in Kenya, they should come to Parliament and present their views,” Kimunya said. He said the envoys’ objection to the electoral law amendments is not in good faith. Kimunya said their aim was to help opposition chief Raila Odinga. “But we also know some of these envoys have in the past been linked with Tahir Square and the Arab Spring Uprisings. The truth will emerge as we dig deeper into connections between these envoys and Raila,” he said Kiaraho said, “We must resist people thinking they can micromanage us in almost every aspect.” He said the issue of concern in law amendment is not special to Kenya. Even US President Donald Trump, he said, is trying to pass legislation to do away with Obama Care. “That is very critical and no envoy is talking about that,” Kiaraho said.  Kioni said the National Assembly will have failed if it does not address the issues pointed out by the Supreme Court as the cause for the August 8 presidential election nullification. He said the laws the National Assembly is addressing are the same that IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati has gone to court to seek interpretation of. Kioni said it is important that Parliament passes those laws for the court to be clear on what needs to be done. He said NASA should not be angry when Jubilee uses its majority in Parliament to push the amendments.