Several Jubilee-affiliated leaders in Bungoma have said they are ready to meet their NASA counterparts to broker peace for Kenya. The fear in the county is that violence will erupt as some houses have been marked amid tension following demonstrations after the vote on Thursday. But Governor Wycliffe Wangamati has assured safety and asked the people to focus on goals such as poverty eradication. More on this: Fear in Bungoma as houses marked after election, police alert KRA director Evans Kakai noted on Saturday that leaders must give the people direction. "It is incumbent upon leaders of this noble community to stand up and be counted, regardless of their political affiliations," Kakai said at his home in Nalondo village, Kabuchai constituency. "It is time to say enough is enough." Kakai said his "humble appeal is that we have a round table on the way forward for our people". "It is time to live by the peace we are famed for. It is no mistake that we are called Babandu ba Mulembe - a peaceful people," he said. The leaders called for the immediate end of political wrangles amid concern about the presidential vote. They said divergent views were expected after the poll but emphasised the importance of respecting people's opinions  "This must be upheld at all costs," said Kaikai. Jubilee stalwart Kenneth Waliaula regretted that people who have lived together peacefully have turned on each other. "It is unbelievable that people who have coexisted could raise hands against the other...that one could destroy property that another toiled to acquire...that we have lost lives because of rigidity and intolerance," he said. "This senseless destruction of property and loss of lives must cease immediately." Other leader noted it is unfortunate that some leaders are inflaming the heightened emotions of their supporters by flashing the intolerance card.  "This is not the multiparty democracy that we fought for. No one should be forced to subscribe to a party whose ideologies they don't support." Vote counts are ongoing following the race that President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto pushed for. They said they accepted the Supreme Court's September nullification of their victory and that NASA candidate Raila Odinga should have faced them once again instead of withdrawing alongside his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka. Protests flared after Raila asked his supporters to boycott the "sham election" Related: Kenya can't hold election talks every five years, Moses Cheboi tells Raila