With their most important match of the campaign on the horizon, AFC Leopards coach Robert Matano has challenged his players that success of their campaign lies squarely in their hands. Speaking after the impressive narrow win away at Ulinzi Stars on Tuesday, he said the players have no choice but to be successful. “It’s not optional. The responsibility for success lies in the hands of the players and there are no two ways about it,” warned Matano. Ahead of tomorrow’s GOtv Shield final against Kariobangi Sharks at Kasarani, Leopards had not scored in five league outings prior to their clash with the soldiers, something Matano admitted was a source of concern. With their most important match of the campaign on the horizon, AFC Leopards coach Robert Matano has challenged his players that success of their campaign lies squarely in their hands. Speaking after the impressive narrow win away at Ulinzi Stars on Tuesday, Matano said the players have no choice but to be successful. “It’s not optional. The responsibility for success lies in the hands of the players and there are no two ways about it,” warned Matano. It is in attack that Matano will be scratching his head in search of a solution. First choice pair of Vincent Oburu and Marcellus Ingotsi have been under whelming in their performances over the last couple of months. The Leopards coach has Whyvonne Isuza and Burundian Meshack Kitenge to turn to should he remain convinced that Oburu and Ingotsi are not in the right form to lead the attack in such a key clash. Kitenge and Isuza, scorer of the winner at Ulinzi, have shown a knack of hitting the back of the net when it matters most. But if they will get the nod to lead Leopards in attack against Sharks remains to be seen. While Leopards are grappling with an attacking quagmire of big proportions, Sharks are brimming with confidence going forward. Star striker Masoud Juma has been in the form of his life scoring crucial goals to catapult Sharks to their first ever finals. It is upon Masoud that William Muluya will place most hopes for Sharks. But the Sharks could not have wished for a worse preparation to the finals than their Tuesday performance. The 3-1 defeat by Gor and the trip they had to make to return to the capital may affect their preparation for their first ever cup final. Meanwhile, Football Kenya Federation (FKF) have confirmed that the final, pitting Ingwe and Sharks will be preceded by the third place playo-ff between Sony Sugar and Vihiga United. Tickets will be priced between Sh200 and sh300.