It is often said the perfect is the enemy of the good. Meaning that completing a task could be made impossible if one waits for perfection. Elections and democracy are not perfect, but they are tools for good. If we cancelled any democratic election around the world that was not perfectly enacted and tabulated, then we might still be waiting for the first-ever democratic election, and colonialists and autocrats would still hold sway over our lives, running affairs by personal fiat rather than for the good of the people. The upcoming election, like its predecessor on August 8, will not be perfect. There will undoubtedly be challenges and irregularities, but the voice and will of the people will be heard, and that is a very good thing, indeed. Unfortunately, some are trying to prevent Kenyan voices from being heard and stand in opposition to democracy, the rule of law and our Constitution. The Supreme Court, with which I have had disagreement, has instructed the election takes place. After the Supreme Court annulled the previous election, NASA principals and officials acclaimed the decision and saluted the Supreme Court justices. However, these same justices have called for the election to be held on October 26, so one can’t fully endorse a decision and then ignore half of it. I disagreed vehemently with the court’s decision, but have accepted the ruling and acted in accordance. These justices, the IEBC and international observers have stated clearly that elections can take place later this week, so there is no legal, constitutional or ethical barrier to their taking place. Some of my opponents have tried to appropriate this election for their own agenda and when they didn’t get the decisions they wanted, have tried to steal the voice of the Kenyan people and ensure the election would not take place. They will fail because Kenyans have fought too hard to establish and enshrine democracy and free and fair elections in our political tradition. They will fail because they seek to make themselves more important than the average Kenyan, who is our employer. I believe in democracy and subjugating my personal political career to the will of ordinary Kenyans so much so that I will do something that no one in the lead-up to the elections would ever do. I call on every Kenyan, and especially those who will vote for one of my opponents, to exercise their democratic right on Thursday. Every Kenyan who votes will send a message far greater than who they would like to see reside in State House. Their mark on the ballot will be a statement that our hard-fought battles freeing our people from colonialism and autocracy mean something. I will applaud and welcome every Kenyan vote as a precious gift that our forefathers bestowed on us, even if it is marked for one of my opponents. If we were not able to hold the election, then we would provide succour to those who wish to take us back to a dark and undemocratic time. Every ballot cast, in my eyes, is a blessing that we must cherish and dare not take for granted. I am delighted that all those who took part in the last election will appear on the ballot paper and allow for every Kenyan to choose the candidate they see as most fitting to be Kenya’s next President. If a candidate doesn’t wish to campaign, that is their individual right. However, no individual has the right to deprive 19 million Kenyans of their God-given right to decide who should rule their country. This election has become more than an opportunity to express one’s opinion on any particular candidate, but a plebiscite for Kenyans to show whether we want to continue along the path of greater rule of law, democracy, liberty and freedom or reverse to a time when the voices of individual Kenyans were ignored and suppressed. There is an old Kenyan saying,“A man who uses force is afraid of reasoning.” I cannot and will not force anyone to vote on Thursday, but I will spend great efforts to ensure that anyone who wishes to vote will be able to do so. My opponent wants to use force because he can no longer reason with the people. The voices of the Kenyan people, regardless of tribe, county or background, are precious to me, and that is why I appeal to you to use this voice and decide for yourselves who you wish to serve you for the next five years. Vote for me, or vote for one of my opponents, but for Kenya’s sake, please vote.  