Kisumu Residents have questioned the exact orders given to GSU officers deployed to quell protest in Kisumu on Friday. This is after a section of residents suffered injuries from police beatings during the anti IEBC protest within the county. The officers beat up motorist, their clients and pedestrian in Kondele in the evening as most people headed home with a video in Star position showing the same. The officers armed with guns and clubs stopped people along the Kisumu-Kakamega Highway opposite Choppies Supermarket in Kondele where they stopped the operators beat them up as others smashed their motorcycles. Philip Adundo who owns a Wine Shop within the area told journalist how the officers around 12.40 vandalized his wine shop where they broke the windows and took part of the stocks that were in the shop. “After they left, as members of the public watched them, some of the people came in and further broke into the shop taking everything because of the officers and we have lost so much goods worth Sh 8million,”said Adundo. He questioned whether the police were in the city to quell protestors or destroyed their things and their livelihood. “This is an issues that we are going to report to IPOA to investigate the officers and bring them to book at the same time will ask for state compensation following the goods that were taken by the officers,”he said. Adundo added “We have eye witnesses and records on the same.The officers after doing this later went and stood aside to as they watch the public complete the job they started, this is uncalled fort and it’s like the officers had a motive to portray the region in some image,”. Another victim, Josephat Oduki who operates a pharmaceutical shop also in the area explained to journalist how they officers smashed the shop’s windows exposing it to rioters who looted all the products. Oduki said the first time the officers attacked them, they smashed the windows of the pharmacy and broke into an Mpesa shop but on Friday when they return, they made further destruction leading to rioters accessing the shop. “They looted all the drugs, a photocopying machine and other items worth Sh 2.5 million, “he said. Benson Oduor, a boda boda operator also displayed his motorbike saying it had been broken by the GSU officers after his was hit by their clubs injuring his fingers and the motorcycles side mirrors broken including the lights. On the same day, at least 20 nursery school pupils were rushed to a Kisumu hospital after they were caught up and hit in anti-IEBC demos. The teachers said anti-riot police fired teargas and sprayed the minor’s classroom at Mount Carmel Academy in Nyalenda. Red Cross workers gave the minors First Aid before taking them to Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Referral Hospital. Nyanza regional police boss Leonard Katana said he was not aware of the attack on the pupils The Kisumu residents Voice Association Chairman Audi Ogada condemned attack on innocent residents and called upon IPOA to immediately probe the uncalled for act by the officers.