No MP will be allowed to enter the National Assembly with a gun. This is one of the stringent measures National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi said will help secure members. The House boss yesterday warned MPs against violating the rules. This came a day after Starehe MP Charles Njagua and his Embakasi East counterpart Babu Owino exchanged blows at the Parliament media centre. Njagua yesterday apologised at a press conference. Some of those who attempted to join the scuffle are reported to have been “strangers to the House”. Muturi said during the afternoon sitting that concerns had been raised about security of the legislators. He directed the Safety and Security department to ensure strangers — those who are not members of either the Senate or the National Assembly  — are subjected to thorough security checks before being admitted into the precincts of Parliament. “I wish to draw the attention of the House to concerns that have been raised with regard to the security and safety of members within the precincts of Parliament. Standing Orders numbers 99, 100 and 101 are explicit on maintenance of security and handling of firearms and other offensive weapons in the House,” he said. “The provisions of these Standing Orders are also echoed in the National Assembly Speaker’s Rules, which are regulations for the conduct of members in the House and orders regulating admission and conduct of visitors within the precincts of Parliament.” Muturi urged MPs to cooperate with serjeants-at-arms and other security officials who will enforce the security checks. “These officers are also mandated to conduct stringent screening of members’ vehicles, before allowing access,” he said. As of yesterday, neither Owino nor Njagua had reported the incident to the Office of the Speaker. Should the matter be reported, the House Powers and Privileges committee chaired by Muturi will investigate the brawl and recommend disciplinary action against the youthful legislators. The committee can also on its own motion order investigations without waiting for referral.