Kenya plunged deeper into turmoil yesterday after IEBC Commissioner Roselyne Akombe dramatically resigned, citing death threats, and Commission boss Wafula Chebukati also threatened to quit. The October 26 presidential rerun is eight days off. NASA flagbearer Raila Odinga has pulled out and called for street protests, saying the poll will be rigged. Supporters have attacked training for poll staff in opposition strongholds. A resolute Chebukati told a press conference he will only remain at the electoral agency helm if President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition chief Raila douse the fires threatening to engulf the country. He tore into his colleagues and top Secretariat staff, calling them partisan, and pledged he would rather bow out with his name intact than plunge the country into anarchy. “I ask the staff adversely mentioned to step aside and allow the project team to function without interference,” Chebukati said. While confirming full technical preparedness for the poll, he said that without critical changes in the commission, the repeat polls will not be fair. Pledging to mediate talks between Uhuru and Raila, the IEBC boss said Kenya urgently needs national dialogue. “Once there is political agreement as a result of dialogue, when there is genuine commitment to let the commission work independently, when all commissioners and staff truly commit to serving the country, rather than partisan political interests; and when we work together to create a conducive environment for Kenyans to express their sovereign will, then I can truly be confident of having presidential elections. Only then can I commit to serve as the National Returning Officer,” Chebukati said at the Bomas of Kenya. Described by his former ideological soul mate Akombe as a man under siege in a divided commission, Chebukati flexed his muscles against the Secretariat. Akombe yesterday said a free, fair and credible election is not possible at this stage, despite preparations. She told the BBC she is afraid to return to Kenya for fear she will be murdered like Chris Msando, former hands-on ICT manager of the electoral agency who was tortured and killed a few days before the August 8 General Election. In a message targeted at CEO Ezra Chiloba, among others, Chebukati insisted top Secretariat staff implicated in the bungled election must quit. “As a lawyer, I cannot continue to be pushed by majority commissioners to accept legal opinions that serve partisan interests and are not grounded in the Constitution and the law. At the least, this is intellectual dishonesty for which my professional training demands that I abhor,” Chebukati said. Saying that he serves at the pleasure of Kenyans and not the Kenyan elite, the 56-year-old lawyer said he will not sacrifice his honour and legacy for short-term gains. "It is already painful to be on record as the Chairman of the IEBC that presided over a presidential election that was nullified by the Supreme Court," he said. “I would rather bow out with my name intact and my head lifted high than be part of a process where personal interests dwarf the interests of the nation. I realise my actions in this noble office will define me for life. My actions will become my legacy and the reference point not only to my life but that of my family. I am therefore not ready to sacrifice an eternal legacy for short-term gains that will sear my conscience,” he stated. Chebukati suggested the environment is not conducive to a free, fair and credible election. For the first time, the IEBC chief warned that Raila's withdrawal from the rerun will plunge the country into economic, political and social crisis. He cited Zimbabwe, Burundi, Bangladesh and Thailand where withdrawal of the main opposition candidates plunged them into deeper turmoil. “The lesson ... is that dismissing the withdrawal of candidates with large numbers of votes does not improve the economic, political or social situation. In fact, it leads to deep crisis,” Chebukati warned. Meanwhile, Raila and Kenyatta continued to harden their positions. Uhuru and DP William Ruto said the Thursday polls are on as they declared Sunday a National Day of Prayer. NASA declared that formidable nationwide street protests will resume on Election Day, in what is likely to paralyse or disrupt the rerun in opposition strongholds. Akombe had traveled from Kenya to Dubai to inspect printing of ballot papers. She used the opportunity to flee to the US, saying she had received threats to her life and was not willing to take the risk of returning to Kenya. Speaking to KTN from the US, Akombe warned that a section of secretariat staff will take Kenya to hell. She said she regretted CEO Ezra Chiloba could say on national TV that the Supreme Court relied on fake documents to nullify the presidential results on September 1. According to Akombe, some secretariat officials have formed a clique within the commission and are holding Chebukati captive. She said until the bad elements in the Commission are eliminated, them IEBC will not be ready for credible polls — not even in three months,, the minimum demanded by Raila to fix the problems at the IEBC. Akombe and Chebukati described each other in glowing terms. She called Chebukati is a very well-meaning person with the temperament of a leader. “But he is a leader under a siege,” she said. IEBC Vice Chair Consolata Maina and Commissioners Abdi Guliye, Paul Kurgat and Boya Molu have vetoed Chebukati on several issues, including the sacking of staff. Raila demands that Chebukati and others be removed before any repeat election. Chebukati described Akombe as one of the finest brains on the commission. “It is very sad to see that we could not provide an environment for such minds to find full expression without fear for their lives,” Chebukati said.