Police yesterday used crude weapons to break into businessman Jimmy Wanjigi's palatial home in Muthaiga where they recovered some guns in the ceiling board.  As the besieged businessman sought court's protection, the police said they were determined to find and arrest Wanjigi after they recovered guns in a Malindi house and in his Muthaiga house in upmarket Nairobi. One of the guns recovered was an M4 which is described as the gun the US army cant do without.  According to Wikipedia, the M4 is a short and light air-cooled, gas operated, magazine-fed rifle. It is extensively used by the US armed forces especially the combat units as the primary infantry weapon. The M4 is also capable of mounting grenade launchers.  Earlier in the day Wanjigi, who is suspected to be hiding in a banker in his house, won a temporary relief after a court blocked his arrest. However, the high-flying businessman was ordered to pay a cash bail of Sh 50,000 to escape arrest following the discovery of a large cache of arms at a property linked to him in Malindi. Justice Chacha Mwita, in a ruling further told police not to destroy the businessman’s property pending hearing and determination of an application he and his wife Irene Nzisa filed before court. The couple dashed to court seeking intervention after Police officers forcibly entered into their home in Muthaiga in search of illegitimate guns. Their lawyer James Orengo told the judge that the raid was calculated to inflict psychological torture and harm Wanjigi’s family due to his political affiliations. Orengo said although the couple has interest in the Malindi property, they deny knowledge of the guns and bullets that were seized by the police on Monday. “I believe that the said connection has been concocted and/or conveniently framed to embarrass me and my family or to falsely accuse me and is otherwise pretextual and merely meant to settle political scores,” Nzisa added in an affidavit. The couple said both the Dpp and the police have no legitimate grounds to search their private homes or even prefer criminal charges against them. “We are law abiding citizens with no criminal record and businessmen of many years standing with vast commercial interests in Kenya” Wanjigi said. By using excessive force and forcibly breaking into their home, they said police acted illegally and in violation of their rights. |”The actions are not lawful , reasonable and therefore constitute a violation of fair administrative” they said. The tycoon revealed that he has been subjected to “untold mental and psychological anguish the last three months. He claimed police officers have been intimidating, harassing and trailing him thus, curtailing his freedom of movement and right to privacy. “I have also been subjected to arbitrary threats being made against my life by police. Yet again this morning using sledge hammers, the same officers have forcibly gained entry into my home and harassed me and family and destroyed property” he said. He sought for several orders among them a declaration that the raid is illegal, unjustified and unconstitutional. The couple also want Inspector general of police Joseph Boinett be held personally liable for the destruction of their property. “I certify this application as urgent and I hereby stop police from threatening the applicants with arrest until October 19 when the case will come up for further directions” Justice Mwita ruled.          