The 5,000 clinical officers employed by the government will get higher salaries by December, after an agreement signed with the Ministry of Health yesterday.  The higher perks will align with the revised scheme of service for clinical officers, which also allows interns to receive salaries.  Yesterday’s agreement ended their month-long strike. Clinicians are expected back to work by Monday. The went on strike on September 15 to protest a decision by the SRC to grade them as “low skilled”, along with nurses, office messengers and secretaries.  The ministry committed to appeal the commission’s decision.  Health CS Dr Cleopa Mailu, PS Julius Korir, Council of Governors chairman Josphat Nanok, Kenya Union of Clinical Officers chairman Peterson Wachira and general secretary George Gebore signed the agreement at Afya House. “We have agreed on the way forward and timelines. I hope the union will ask its members to return to work as we deliberate on a CBA that can be binding for two years,” Nanok said. The return-to-work formula requires the national government and the counties to sign an agreement with the union in 60 days and begin talks on the CBA immediately.  Mailu said the clinicians have proved that conflicts can be resolved without resorting to strikes.  “We always favour negotiations, this is the most effective way to resolve conflicts,” he said. The union deputy secretary general Austin Oduor assured clinicians no one would be victimised because their strike was protected by law. “The agreement also states no one will receive disciplinary action because of the strike,” he said.  As part of their demands, the clinicians had wanted the least job grading to be C1. Currently, they start at B3, the lowest grade, considered unskilled and unprofessional. President Uhuru Kenyatta in June signed the Clinical Officers Act, elevating the workers to the skilled level.  The Act provides for the training, registration and licensing of clinical officers.  It establishes the Clinical Officers Council of Kenya, which is responsible for advising the state on policy. 