NASA leader Raila Odinga now claims that Jubilee Party has already printed fake ballot papers at a godown in Industrial Area ahead of the repeat polls on Oct 26. In an interview with Radio Jambo on Wednesday at his Karen home, Raila said they have reliable information that the ballot papers were to be stuffed in ballot boxes during the elections. He said there is photographic evidence of Jubilee Secretary General Raphael Tuju and chief agent Davis Chirchir entering the godown to inspect the printing process. “If you go there right now, you will find the papers. What they wanted to do is fill them and stuff them in ballot boxes and say these are the votes. “That is one of the reasons we withdrew. These are thieves and we cannot go to an election whose outcome is already known.” Raila spoke a day after he withdrew from the October 26 repeat race saying IEBC has stonewalled any attempts to initiate reforms necessary for a free and fair election. NASA had given the electoral commission 11 irreducible minimums which it demanded must be met before they agree to go to the fresh election. Among them is the dismissal of IEBC CEO Ezra Chiloba and ten other officials who Raila said were the architects of rigging the polls. “If they make the necessary changes we will go to elections,” Raila said adding that anti-IEBC demos will continue as scheduled. The repeat election was called after the Supreme Court on September 1 annulled President Uhuru Kenyatta’s win at the August 8 polls. The court cited irregularities and illegalities in the transmission of results. Raila said his pulling out of the race is meant to push for a free and fair electoral process in the country now and in future elections. “I don’t have to always be on the ballot, but I want my candidate or whoever will be on the ballot to participate in a free and fair contest,” Raila said. The Opposition leader said the many petitions that have been lodged in various courts is an indication that the August election was not free and fair. He said he took the decision to pull out of the repeat election because he does not want the culture of stolen elections to continue in the country. Raila said former President Daniel Moi never won the 1992 and the 1997 polls against Kenneth Matiba and Mwai Kibaki respectively. He said he beat former President Mwai Kibaki in the 2007 election and again defeated President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2013 and in the August election. “Everyone knows I won, I was leading Kibaki with more than a million votes with a few constituencies to go. Then an order was given for live transmission of results to stop. Then they announced that Kibaki won and people started demonstrating,” Raila said. “In 2013, Uhuru did not win and he knows it. The tactic they used where a computer was doing the voting was used again during the August election but we caught them,” Raila said. “Davis Chirichir logged into the servers and started voting a day before the elections were held. He made a total of 10,000 changes and that is why they don’t want to open IEBC servers.” Raila said Uhuru's votes were infalted by over 2 million votes and his votes reduced by a similar margin. The former prime minister dismissed claims that he withdrew from the election to create a political and constitutional crisis and force a coalition government. “I am the one who won so if they want talks for coalition government they come to me, not me going to them. They are talking about me wanting "nusu mkate" as if they won,” Raila said. The opposition chief said Jubilee is busy buying defectors who lost in the election to make it look like it has the numbers. “They are walking around with Sh50 million, Sh100 million which they are using to buy defectors in the rallies they are attending. Where are they getting that money from?” He said the money they collected from well-wishers was well spent on their campaigns. “The money was being used as it came in, so we were not keeping it. We are not a bank,” Raila said. The NASA chief is set to travel to the UK on Wednesday where he will give a lecture at the Royal Institute of International Affairs, Chatham House this Friday. He said he will jet back on Saturday. Read: Raila unjust for wasting Kenyans' Sh12b, we're ready for swearing-in - UhuRuto Also read; Uncertainty as Raila withdraws from Oct 26 poll       