The fresh presidential poll has terribly failed and should, therefore, be nullified, NASA co-principal Moses Wetang'ula has said. Wetangula on Friday asked IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati to call for fresh election. Senator Wetang'ula (Bungoma) termed the Thursday poll "shambolic and shameful". He lauded the opposition supporters for heeding to their flag bearer Raila Odinga's boycott directive. This, he said, is the right war against electoral injustice in the country. "To avoid a slide onto the dangerous path of anarchy, you (Chebukati) have no choice but to declare these results a terrible fail and call for fresh elections in another 90 days. There is possibly no mathematical formula that will help add up the numbers and earn President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto a legitimate second term in office," Wetang'ula said in a statement. He said the low voter turnout in the country including the Jubilee strongholds dealt a blow to their rivals' "coined" narrative of the tyranny of numbers to "rob" Kenyans the power to elect the President of their choice. The voter turnout stands at about 6 million compared to 14 million in August out of 19 million registered voters. In August, Uhuru was declared a winner with 8.3 million votes in the nullified election while Raila got 6.7 million votes. "What we have today is a minority win that falls way below the standards of a credible and fair election. The results of this poll cannot be allowed to stand or meet the threshold of any democratic minimums. The minority will not decide the destiny of the silent majority," Wetang'ula said. The Ford Kenya leader slammed Jubilee leaders in Bungoma and poll losers he referred to as "shamed greed" for attempting to "trade residents' votes for a meal at State House." Read: IEBC postpones elections in Nyanza, to announce new dates Wetang'ula praised the residents for teaching them a lesson by boycotting the poll. The Bungoma senator condemned armed security officers for brutalizing residents and killing two opposition supporters who were peacefully protesting against the repeat election. He claimed that the officers on Thursday night raided private homes and assaulted dozens of people. "Parts of Bungoma Town such as KCC, Mfutu and Mjini witnessed overnight looting orchestrated by the said security officers. We condemn in the strongest terms possible the police brutality, which has resulted in scores of injuries and two deaths. These actions are unlawful, criminal and unacceptable in a country governed by law and order," Wetang'ula said. The Ford Kenya leader vowed that together with the county's elected legislators they will not allow police officers paid by taxpayers to brutalize, violate the residents' rights or destroy their property. "We condemn the unprecedented presence of military personnel on our streets and in villages in a veiled attempt to militarise the electoral process, intimidate Kenyans and earn a few people mandate to govern by extortion," he said. "The move to restrict people’s movement as seen on the eve of the repeat poll offends our people’s constitutional and God-given right to movement and right to assemble." Also read: Omtatah challenges repeat poll's legality at Supreme Court