I’m not sure how long I sleep. All I know is that it’s heavy. Deep. No dreams, nothing to take me away
from this place. Just a straight blackout from pure exhaustion. The sun is
out when I finally flicker my eyes open. I take a moment to wipe the drowsiness
from my eyes. Daylight already? I guess the client didn’t show. There’s no
particular relief in that. I had steeled myself last night, but I don’t think I
have the mental strength to do so again. I just wanted to get it over and done
with! I can’t bear the thought of a long wait again.  I look around and it takes me
a moment to realise that the door to the room is open. Not just slightly ajar
but wide open. I sit up. Where’s Bill? Did the client come, find me asleep and
leave the door open? Or did he come and have his way with me while I slept? My
negligee is still on, undisturbed. I touch my vagina. No fluid or signs of
forced entry. What a relief. I look again at the open door. What do I do?
Should I try to escape again? Or is this a trick? Some sort of trap to test to
see if I’m compliant or still defiant? I stand up and slowly walk
towards the door. Fear won’t let me cross the threshold. I’m paralysed. “Bill?”
I call out. No answer.  “Bill are you there?” I call
out louder. I hear no footsteps, no response and no movement in the house. I
wish I knew what to do. Should I make a run for it? I take off the negligee and
put on the filthy clothes I had discarded the night before. They smell foul and
damp.  “BILL!!!” I call out one last
time. The man isn’t here. I gather up the courage to leave the room. I walk out
cautiously, a sharp contrast to the other two times I tried to escape. I walk down
the familiar dark corridor. There’s actually no one here. It’s not a joke. I
get to the kitchen and it’s empty. I hold my breath as I press down on the door
handle leading outside. It gives way with no resistance. I can’t believe it’s
not locked!  The garden is deserted, so is the parking lot. No cars. The gate I had tried unsuccessfully to climb over before, is wide open. What on
earth is going on? I walk, not run, towards it. Something keeps bothering me.
What is it?  Yes! I remember. A scene in Game of Thrones, when a hostage was
“allowed” to escape. Mind games. The character was Theon Greyjoy and his captor
a psychotic named Ramsey. He posed as a servant helping him escape, only to lead
him back to the same place he had been held captive. It all ultimately led to
breaking Theon. The torture of not only the body but the mind as well.  If
someone can break your mind, they don’t need to put you in chains. But this is
not a TV show. I keep walking. I may just get out of here again. I don’t know
how or why this is happening so easily but I won’t dwell on it for now.
Survival mode kicks in and slowly, I start to believe. I start running. I’m out of the compound, it’s broad daylight
and I know my way to the town. What could go wrong? My captors can’t go around
grabbing people off the streets, surely, I’m going to be ok. I run faster. Down
the familiar road, I run like the devil himself is after me.