Migori town anti-IEBC demonstrators on Friday killed a stray dog, built two coffins and ‘buried’ IEBC CEO Ezra Chiloba and Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i as three people were shot by live bullets. The unlucky dog started following the demonstrators feeling it was a funeral procession for a chance of feast before it was cornered and killed using crude weapons within Migori town. Carrying the carcass and the two coffins, demonstrators held peaceful demonstrations in Migori town which ended at the county IEBC offices where a funeral celebration was held. Demonstrators overran the anti-riot police officers at the officers, signed condolences books, sang funeral dirge before praying for the departed ‘souls.” During the October 2 demonstrations, the group which tried to hold a similar service at the offices failed as they were repulse by police who shot severally in the air. “We want to tell Chiloba that according to the Luo culture if you are buried and your funeral organised while you are still alive then you remain a ghost, a persona-non grata. Any we don’t want any ghost organising election,” Suna West MP Peter Masara said. Masara said the Friday demonstrations, which started by 7am and had huge number of demonstrators showed that the order against demonstrations by Matiang’I was null and void. “We want to tell Matiang’I that he still lives in the past if he thinks he can issue orders on our constitutional rights to picket, we buried him too and  his order here today,” Masara said. Demonstrators said from next week Monday they will join similar demonstrations everyday chanting slogans against Jubilee Party and calls to boycott the forthcoming October 26 elections. “Matiang’I should know we will never tire to have a free and fair elections in the country, we don’t want a repeat of bungled polls in the country, a demonstrator said. Three people, including a 73 years old woman were shot after demonstrators moved 700 meters from the IEBC offices to Posta Grounds within Migori town when they wanted to burn the two coffins with the stray dogs in it. Anti-riot police fired live bullets and teargas at the crowd hitting Boniface Ombima, 32, a motorbike rider who was taking food to pupils blocked away in nearby Babyshine Academy. “I was taking lunch to pupils blocked at the school during lunch hour when a bullet hit me on right leg, I only felt blood before bystanders shouted that I was shot,” Ombima said at Migori Level Four Hospital where he was rushed. The granny was rushed at St Joseph Mission Hospital while a third person was rushed to Akidiva hospital within Migori town. Public service vehicles were packed at Migori Police station as others kept away from work as business people closed their premises for fear of looting as demonstrators engaged police in running battle for better part of the day. Ends