Kenyans on social media have called for the arrest of Kandara MP Alice Wahome for harassing an IEBC official on Friday. A video emerged of Wahome and returning officer Martin Malonza disagreeing over changes to Form 34B for the constituency. Wahome and Malonza pushed and pulled after he allegedly refused to let Wahome and her agents sign the form. More on this: Kandara MP Alice Wahome scuffles with RO over changes to Form 34B Via #ArrestAliceWahome, members of the public said Wahome should not be allowed to go Scot-free. "She's showing us the kind of leadership we have, from the President to IEBC...She must be arrested and prosecuted," Danmar Dan said. 'Cyprian Nyakundi said: "I Insist, Alice Wahome must be arrested for assaulting a [returning officer]. No Narrative will save the toxic feminist." Robert Alai‏ noted that Wahome should not have assaulted the man or tried to handle the matter, whether or not Malonza was wrong, as she is not a police officer. "She assaulted the man," he said. Patrick Safari‏ said: "If anything happens to Malonza or any of his family members, the MP should be held responsible." Ahmed Mohamed‏wrote: "It's people like Wahome who reverse gains made by Jubilee Party. Nothing justifies assault on anybody." '@Jorge_see' said the constitution might as well be suspended if Wahome, the Jubilee chief agent in the constituency, is not arrested. He added: "Shameless perpetrators of impunity." Wallace Ralak‏ wrote: "They pocketed Jubilee cash, bought military attires that didn't bring any vote. Why harass that brother to add numbers?" These claims have not been proven. But another Twitter user did not see anything wrong with what Wahome did and noted the public should not judge. "I don't think Wahome committed an offence. Please try finding out the truth before [using] your keyboards," said a user identified as Muwanguzi. Earlier, IEBC called for Wahome's prosecution noted what she did amounted to an election offence. The commission said: "We take great exception to the manner in which [Wahome] harassed an IEBC official performing his duties. Such is an electoral offence that must be punished." The MP defended herself saying the RO had refused to let Jubilee agents since the form and that she ad to intervene in line with her role as their chief. More on this: IEBC wants Alice Wahome prosecuted after scuffle with RO