Just when Kenya was entering the home stretch in a bruising electoral contest, Opposition doyen and enigma Raila Odinga pulled a fast move by withdrawing from the October 26 election, thus confounding both friend and foe. With this unexpected deft sleight of hand he threw everything into a spin, catching both the IEBC and his nemesis Jubilee flat-footed. The jury is still out regarding the precise consequences of this action, with the opposition demanding fresh nominations and Jubilee demanding that Raila’s name remains on the ballot. In what is now becoming a familiar script, NASA, with a severely limited budget, appears to have outfoxed the well-oiled Jubilee juggernaut. All this would have appeared hilarious and made great comedy were political emotions not precariously charged. The nation is gripped by great anxiety and all can feel the echoes of what preceded the 2007-08 post-election violence. Our politicians, however, appear to be blind to this fact and are continuously stoking ethnic tensions. They appear obsessed with achieving their own selfish ends rather than focusing on the general good or community interests. Indeed, the opposition’s withdrawal, given a chance, may inadvertently serve as a safety valve. Jubilee, however, appears hell-bent on victory by hook or by crook. They are not deterred by warnings that this could turn out to be a Pyrrhic victory and as such an election would be illegitimate. The million dollar question is why is Jubilee pushing so hard for a seemingly illegitimate status? What are they trying to hide or what is it that they know that we don’t? It smacks of cover-up because truth be told, President Uhuru Kenyatta has excellent chances of success after fresh nominations and election. His morbid fear of nomination and fresh election, however, is raising red flags. Talk on the grapevine indicates the President is held hostage by a cabal of politicians, led by the Deputy President, who, like the proverbial Shylock, are demanding their ‘pound of flesh’. The cabal feels it is payback time. They have stood stoically in support of Uhuru on the premise that he would support Ruto in 2022. The end of the 2017 election in reality marks the beginning of the battle for 2022. Indeed the centre or balance of power is poised to change immediately after the election. This is no secret as National Assembly majority leader Aden Duale is on record stating that after 2017 Jubilee parliamentarians will visit the President one last time to say thank you and goodbye, then ride out into the night of the future with William Ruto. The cabal’s sticking point is that fresh nominations and election present a gamble, perhaps not a big one but a gamble nonetheless. Those around the Deputy President, however, cannot afford a risk or gamble. Their rational is why risk what appears already cut and dried? They feel that they have invested too much in terms of time and resources to risk even a further minute. Where does all this leave the ordinary citizen who appears marooned between the devil and the blue deep sea? Do they not care whether we perish? Or are we just pawns in a murderous game? Already a number of citizens have lost their lives during the anti-IEBC celebrations. We haven’t heard even a single message of condolence from the government. What on earth is going on? This is callous to the extreme and can easily fuel the cry for secession by communities who feel ignored and excluded from and by government. Kenya urgently requires a saviour or liberator from the shackles of our political class. Chief Justice David Maraga acquitted himself admirably by annulling the presidential election. It was an act of courage and valour. IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati, can you stand up and be counted? Throw in the towel and resign. Your own soldiers have mutinied. As my German pal often states, “Vat de hell?”