The African Football Federation (CAF) have officially named Morocco to replace Kenya as the next host for the African Nations Championship (CHAN) scheduled for January 12 to February 2, 2018.  Morocco submitted their candidacy to host the continental tournament on September 30 a week after the Caf stripped Kenya of the right to host the competition due to a lack of infrastructure. Following the decision of the African football body, Morocco, Ethiopia and Equatorial Guinea submitted their bids to host the tournament. Ethiopia later withdrew their bid, leaving Morocco to battle it out with Equatorial Guinea. Prior to the announcement of the CAF decision, Morocco appeared favourite to host the competition. Morocco chose four stadiums to host the tournament this —Agadir’s Adrar Stadium, Tangier’s Ibn Battouta Stadium, Casablanca’s Mohammed V Stadium, and Marrakech’s Grand Stadium. The CHAN brings together 16 national teams made up of players selected in their respective national championships. Meanwhile, Ghana’s faint hopes of qualifying for the 2018 Africa Nations Championship (CHAN) through the backdoor have been dashed after Egypt were named to replace Morocco in next year’s tournament. Morocco qualified for the tournament after defeating their North African neighbours in the two-legged knock-out qualifiers. However a decision by the Confederation of African Football (CAF) to award the hosting rights to Morocco on Saturday means there was the need to replace the Atlas Lions among the team that qualified for the tournament. As hosts, Morocco qualify automatically and there was the need for their other slot to be filled. This sparked hopes among some Ghanaians that the Black Stars B could be considered as WAFU champions. But Caf decided that with Morocco now getting an automatic slot, Egypt who were eliminated by Morocco in the 2018 qualifiers will take the qualifying slot. The decision was arrived at Saturday during the Confederations of African Football Executive Committee meeting in Lagos, Nigeria.