Samani Rally Team veteran Dinesh Sachania believes the acquisition of a new power steering will be crucial to his success at next month’s Kenya Airways East African Safari Classic Rally.  ‘Kaka’ as he is amiably referred to said that with the help of his experienced co-driver Feisal Khan and the power steering, he has what it takes to steer his Datsun 180B to top 15. “We have installed new and more durable fuel pumps. We are also installing a new power steering to make our driving easier and more enjoyable. We are planning to finish at least in the top 15, but not until savoring the grueling drive on historic terrains. Since the last classic, the Datsun has undergone a full rebuild,” said Kaka. “Faiyo (Khan) is such an experienced navigator and was part of our team during the last Safari Classic Rally. Being Tinu Khan’s nephew, I have full confidence in him. He is level-headed on the tulips whenever he gets down to serious business on the cockpit.”  “The rain during the event and driving through muddy sections of the route course was immense fun. We got bogged down a few times but that’s part of the adventure of this game,” he observed. “It is fantastic fun meeting new people from around the world who share the same passion of rallying.” Kaka is fully convinced that Tinu’s experience and contribution as team manager will help Team Samani on their 2017 course. “Tinu is a key player in our team and indeed the development of Kenyan motor racing. He knows the ins and outs of the car being the guy who maintains the vehicle. What’s more, he has participated in several classic events as a navigator and a team organiser giving him vast knowledge of what to expect of gigantic events of Safari Classic calibre,” he said. However, he could not hide his wariness at the prospect of facing the likes of Stig Blomqvist and Ian Duncan. “It is a real pleasure to drive against Blomqvist and Ian. I have completed against Ian over several Kenya national rallies in the past, so meeting two Safari Classic Rally greats in a competitive atmosphere is always a moment to savour for a long time. In my younger days I enjoyed driving the Subaru. I then upgraded to Mitsubishi Evolution as the KNRC had increased its pace and it proved to be a very stable and reliable car. As for the Datsun, I switched to it to enjoy the classic splendour. The car is still in great condition and looks like it just rolled off the assembly line.” he quipped.