On January 19, 1957, a most unusual thing
happened in Nandi. Oginga Odinga, then a Member of the Legislative Council for
Central Nyanza, arrived unannounced at the Kaptumo Intermediate School in
southern Nandi. Odinga arrived about 10am in an old and weather-beaten Land Rover
and requested to see the headmaster, Gerald Nathaniel Kalya. Kalya came out to
meet for the first time the nationalist leader whose unequivocal call for
Independence was well known. Odinga told Kalya that he planned to tour Nandi to
rally the Nandi to participate in the upcoming election slated for March that
year.  This was the very first election open to
Africans and Odinga shared with him his concern that the Nandi were lagging
behind in the drive for Independence and he wanted to make sure that they would
turn up to vote in large numbers and be a part of the struggle for freedom. Following the stringent requirements set by
Sir Walter Coutts for African participation in the vote, only 1,798 Nandis were
registered to vote out of over 100,000 adults. Odinga wanted to ensure that
they would all turn up to vote.    HOSTILE
CHIEF At Kalya’s suggestion, Odinga agreed that
they should first call on the area chief and get his nod before continuing with
the tour. Knowing what kind of man Senior Chief Elijah Cheruiyot Chepkwony was,
Kalya forewarned Odinga that there was a possibility of trouble with the
powerful and fiercely pro-colonial chief, who had openly disdained the drive
for Independence. Odinga insisted that they should still go to the chief, who
lived only a short distance away from the school.  Kalya hopped onto Odinga’s rickety Land Rover
and in a little while they were at the chief’s home. As they approached the
house, the chief came out to meet them, and on recognizing Odinga, he
immediately shouted at him in a harsh voice saying, “Hey you, Odinga! What are
you doing here? What do you want? Get out of this place now!”  Odinga
tried to calm down the irate chief but to no avail. The chief went on to
threaten Odinga with dire consequences if he did not leave Nandi at once.
Somewhat perturbed, Odinga decided to leave, but not before telling off the
chief, saying, “Bwana chief, we shall still get Uhuru even if you don’t
want it.”  And with that, Odinga got into his vehicle
and left.   THEATRE
OF CONTRADICTIONS It is now 60 years since 1957. The Odinga of
today is urging his supporters in Nandi (and around the country) not to turn up
and vote! In 1957, Kenyans were dying to vote while today we are dying not to
vote. Back then, Odinga was busy encouraging the vote, while his son is in 2017
blocking others from voting.  Kenyan politics is today the quintessential
theatre of contradictions. In the last two months, we have done a few things in
the name of democracy that have never been done before in the world. The world
has never seen a politician expending considerable resources to ensure that
people should not vote, much less vote for him. We fought for the right to vote,
which we got in 1957 from the blood of those who perished in the Mau Mau
uprising. In fact, we got the ability to vote in Kenya long before African
Americans could vote legally in the United States. Only a handful of countries
in Africa could vote at that time and even today many African nations still
cannot hold even a shambolic election.    UNFATHOMABLE
ABSURDITIES It was the French thinkers Jean-Paul Sartre
and Albert Camus who used the term ‘absurd’ in the 1940s to express their
frustration in their inability to find a rational explanation for human
behaviour. It was British critic Martin Esslin who first used the now popular
phrase ‘theatre of the absurd’, in 1961, while describing the dramatists of his
generation who employed illogical positions to express the apparent absurdities
of human existence and experiences. I wonder how the playwrights and thespians
of Esslin’s generation would have depicted Kenya’s political situation. A
nation where we die not to vote – and a nation where we must vote regardless.
And everyone is digging in. The common folk are confused by the positions taken
by the leaders of their side of the political divide. The lawyers also leaning
on the two main sides are only adding to the confusion, as are various
political analysts who have invaded nearly all media outlets. There is too much
noise and the din is very not helping.   DAYS OF TROUBLES But while boycotting a vote is still acceptable,
it is hard to fathom why one would prevent another person from voting just
because he doesn’t want to vote. I was glad when Raila said that he is
converting NASA into the ‘National Resistance Movement’ and I instantly thought
of the messy situation in Uganda as they are trying to amend the law to allow
for President Yoweri Museveni to lead beyond the age of 75. Raila is also
planning to establish a ‘People’s Assembly’ to push for another round of
elections in the next 90 days. But peaceful resistance and civil disobedience
must also have substance in them. This one is based on a figment of the
imagination that the electoral system is specifically designed against Raila
Odinga. Since Raila likes to compare us with other nations, the United States
is still grappling with a largely bungled election that brought to power Donald
Trump under the cloud of allegations of Russian interference. NASA may have
only opened up the wounds of tribal violence because inconveniencing others for
the sake of meeting unclear demands is only taking us into more trouble. A call
for a boycott of lawful authority is nothing short of anarchy. Boycotting
products and firms of real or perceived supporters of Jubilee will not just
hurt those firms but also hurt NASA supporters. In fact, a fall in revenue
collection from the boycotts or even from a slow-down of the economy will also
be a fall in county allocations, which will in turn hamper the ability of the
counties to provide services – and this is true for NASA or Jubilee alike.
Besides, what if Jubilee supporters return the favour in boycotting ‘NASA-leaning’
businesses?     LONG
ROAD TO A FREE VOTE In coming to Nandi, Odinga was also seeking
out various opinion leaders in Nandi. Kalya, who like Odinga had attended
Alliance, had made indications that he would stand in the election of that year
to challenge Daniel Moi for the Legislative Council seat for Rift Valley.
Despite chasing Odinga out of Nandi like a dog, the rantings of Chief Chepkwony
never prevented the Nandi people from voting. The voting took place In the
second weekend of March 1957 as scheduled and some 1,408 votes were cast,
representing 78.3% voter turnout. The votes overwhelmingly went to Moi, who
went on to win the Rift Valley Legislative Council seat. Following the incident
however, Kalya withdrew his candidature in the election, perhaps fearing that
he would offend the chief who had founded the school he taught in and was its
protégé. Chief Chepkwony died in 1961 in a road crash just two years shy of the
Independence which he had so deeply resisted.  Kalya went on to become the first Senator for
Nandi in 1963 and MP for Mosop in 1966.   FAITH
IN DEMOCRACY I recently interviewed Mzee Simeon araap
Letting of Chepterit in Nandi, an old councilman now 91, who was one of those
who first voted in 1957. He is probably one of only the few people still alive
who has voted continuously since 1957, including as late as Thursday this week.
These are people who have faith in democracy, no matter how it works or fails
to work for them. He has stood in elections, won some, lost some, but he still
votes. Nandi county today has about 350,000 voters, a 200-fold increase from
1957. The Nandi people voted overwhelmingly for Ronald Ngala (1963), Jomo
Kenyatta (1969 and 1974), Daniel Moi (1979-1997), Uhuru Kenyatta (2002), Raila
Odinga (2007) and Uhuru Kenyatta (2013) in that order. They have ridden the
waves created by Kadu, Kanu, UDF, Narc, ODM, URP and now Jubilee, voting
because they believe that one man’s vote really does count. They, like millions
of Kenyans, have voted in many different ways and with many different outcomes.
I believe this is a good thing for a young democracy like ours.     THE
ABSURDITY OF ‘FREE AND FAIR’? I have always wondered what exactly ‘free and
fair’ means. Is it an actual thing or just an inconclusive and relative
abstract? Do we really have the moral ground to castigate the IEBC for failing
to conduct ‘free and fair’ elections when we ourselves cannot conduct party
primaries along the same lines? As far as I am concerned, there is no party
that has got it right with party primaries. ODM conducted what appeared to all
of us as shambolic primaries, as did Jubilee and numerous others, and many are
today in office courtesy of a largely flawed process. Somehow the Kenyan people
accepted and moved on. Why then have we raised the bar to unachievably high
levels for the IEBC? While I will not condone mediocrity with the IEBC, I have
a strong feeling that until we get it right with party primaries, we really
can’t blame anyone for ‘rigging’, otherwise it will be a case of the pot
calling the kettle black. ‘Rigging’ appears to be an incurable perception, a
state of the mind and the first port of call for anyone who loses. Why then must we antagonize the IEBC so much
for ‘rigging’ when we can’t do any better? This is one of the most powerful absurdities
in our politics.   KING
OF CONTRADICTIONS I am now more convinced that Raila Odinga is
pushing the impasse for no other reason but to punish Kenyans for not electing
him. Granted, he spent more than a tenth of his life in the cooler and also in
exile in the name of freedom, it is therefore understood if he and/or his
followers has a sense of entitlement to the presidency. But you must remember
that he was trying to get into power through undemocratic means and when he was
finally converted to democracy, it has not worked either. In the guise of
reforming an electoral system with unattainable “irreducible minimums” and
eventually quitting the race altogether, he has held everyone in Kenya hostage
and it seems he must become President whether we like it or not. But deep
inside, Raila knows that, as things stand now, the tribal formations and the
voting patterns of Kenyans are all powerfully against his bid. For instance,
when he took for granted the Kalenjins who had overwhelmingly voted for him in
2007, he lost an opportunity that would never return and is today haunted by
that. It is therefore the people of Kenya and not the IEBC that Raila is at war
with.    THE
ABSURDITIES OF OUR POLITICS    Our politics is so fraught with absurdities
and idiosyncrasy you would understand exactly how we got into this mess. We
have seen wanton looting done in the name of ‘peaceful’ demonstrations. Just
last week, at the height of the troubles, I had to rush to Maseno on a family
emergency. I had to pass through Kisumu as there was no shorter way there. Talk
of a living hell! I had to drive through a rock-strewn road with tyres burning
and menacing hordes of youth manning makeshift roadblocks demanding a toll at
every stop. I wondered what all this fuss had to do with democracy when I had
to pay close to Sh5,000 to get through.  Our Constitution is no longer a model to be
followed.     