Jubilee politicians have maintained that the October 26 repeat presidential election must be held as scheduled by IEBC. They criticized NASA leadership for 'misleading' Kenyans that there will be no elections if their "irreducible minimum demands" are not met. The politicians include Maina Kamanda, Millicent Omanga, Kalembe Ndile, Stanley Livondo, John Munuve, Moses Ole Sekuda, Reuben Ndolo and Machakos town MP Peter Munyaka. They addressed the public on Sunday at Mutituni market in Machakos County during a caravan tour for mobilizing votes for President Uhuru Kenyatta. "There will be elections on October 26, do not listen to the other voices which claim there will be no elections," Ndolo said. They criticized NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga for mobilizing his supporters to demonstrate against IEBC officials.  They said the demonstrations were unhealthy for the country and would lead to tribal clashes. "Tuende tupige kura kwa Rais Uhuru Kenyatta tarehe 26 October, nchi isianze kusambaratika vile imeanza. Tusiende njia ya fujo tukae na amani," Kamanda said. This translates to: "Let us go and vote for president Uhuru Kenyatta on October 26 so that the country doesn't disintegrate like it has started to. Let us not go for chaos, let us live in peace." The leaders urged Ukambani residents to embrace peace and vote Kenyatta for the region's development.  They said it is only during UhuRuto's reign that the locals experienced some development. "The church should be at the forefront in preaching peace across the country. It should advocate for the electorate to elect God fearing leaders," Omanga said. "Tukichagua viongozi wasiojua mungu, nchi itasambaratika. Tuubiri injili ya amani na upendo," she added. (If we elect leaders who don't know God, the country will disintegrate. Let us preach peace and love) They said NASA supporters should conduct peaceful demonstrations if they must and avoid destruction of property. Livondo said NASA supporters who engage in violent protests will be prosecuted at the International Criminal Court in Arusha, Tanzania. He said ICC had already collected 60,000 names of youth, women and men who have been engaging in violent activities during the anti-IEBC demonstrations.  They said the country needs uniting leaders like the president.  "Uhuru has done a lot to the country as far as development is concerned. The president is uniting the country, he is the leader Kenyans need," Olesekuda said.  "Tumerudi ndani ya Jubilee kama viongozi wa Kajiado, hata aliyekua Gavana Nkedianye atarudi Jubilee kwa sababu ameona mwangaza," added he. (We are back in Jubilee as leaders from Kajiado, even former governor Nkedianye will be back because he has seen the light) 