On the banks of the Burguret River in Nyeri county is a unique fish restaurant built up on a gigantic fig tree. The Trout Tree Restaurant has a simple but comfortable setup. Rustic tables and chairs sit on two levels of wooden platforms rigged around the giant fig. The restaurant overlooks the large ponds of the fish farm, fed by ice-cold waters that flow from Mt Kenya. The menu is uncomplicated and based on freshly caught trout served in forest ambience. The fish is available whole or filleted, and is char-grilled, pan-fried, in a curry, as a chowder soup, and Tandoori style, accompanied by different styles of potatoes, chapati, rice, ugali and vegetables. A cold beer or chilled glass of wine pair well with the fish dishes. There are non-fish items, such as steak, pasta dishes, vegetarian items, pizzas cooked in a wood-burning over and flavourful Beef Skewers. The light, soft bread rolls are baked fresh every day, and their chocolate cake goes well with a cup of coffee. The surrounding trees create a cool forest haven for visitors and wildlife. A family of tree hyrax lives here, watching the goings-on in the restaurant. Sometimes vervet monkeys come in, hoping to get some scraps, but it is better not to feed them as they become a nuisance. Other residents are a troop of colobus monkeys with long black-and-white fur, and a flock of geese. Being one of few restaurants on a long stretch of highway, this is a convenient stopover for travellers. With every visit, I usually buy some fresh trout to take home. But sometimes trout is unavailable during the dry season, when the menu mostly comprises tilapia fish. Trout Tree is open daily until the late afternoon with no dinner service. There is a play area for children and for overnight stays, the self-catering cottage can take up to six people. Food service is quick and the servers are friendly. But when the restaurant is busy, wait times can be long and the service gets disorganised. Nevertheless, a wonderful dining experience in a very unique location.   LOCATION: A2/Kiganjo-Nanyuki Highway, Nyeri county CONTACTS: +254 722 664830, trouttreerestaurant@gmail.com   Star Rating:   4/5