NASA leader Raila Odinga's withdrawal from the presidential election will not stop Kenyans from going to the ballot on October 26. It looks virtually certain that he will not take part the rerun, whether he formally withdraws or not, and will urge his supporters to boycott what he calls a rigged, sham election. The ex-Prime Minister Raila departs today for the UK and there are fears he might announce his withdrawal from the UK, and might not return for the poll.   He keeps everyone guessing.  According to Regulation 52(1) of the Election (General) Regulations, Raila would have to formally inform the IEBC that he had withdrawn from the race, within three days after nominations. The fresh election ordered did not trigger a nomination process and the IEBC declared President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila the only two candidates through a gazette notice, in effect the nomination. As Raila has not formally withdrawn from the race formally as required by Regulation 52, he is assumed to be a candidate and his name will be on the ballot.  If Raila had already withdrawn formally, the law (Regulations 21 and 53 of the Elections Act) requires the IEBC declares Uhuru, the only remaining candidate, as duly elected President. Regulation 21 states: "If at the close of nominations for a presidential election, only one candidate is validly nominated, the Commission shall publish a notice in the Gazette showing the name of the candidate so nominated and stating that the presidential election shall not be held, and the Commission shall declare the candidate elected as President in Form 14." Though the Constitution does not expressly speak about withdrawal, Article 138 (1) anticipates a situation where there is a single presidential candidate who, it says, would be decared elected. In 2013, the Supreme Court sought to answer the question of withdrawal but ended up quoting a non-existent text of the Constitution, Article 138(1)(b), creating even more confusion. The Supreme Court clarified later, however, that it meant Article 138(8)(b), which speaks of the election being cancelled as a result of death, thus leading to fresh election.  The question remains: Does the death of a presidential candidate have the same effect as withdrawal of the candidate? Sixteen days from Election Day, Jubilee has pulled out all stops and hit the campaign trail, while NASA has been very quiet and is not campaigning aggressively. Except say in press conferences no reforms, no election. Mostly no election, we won't be forced into an unfair contest. Uhuru and DP William Ruto have campaigning frenetically since their victory was overturned on September 1 by the Supreme Court. The David Maraga-led apex court found the August 8 poll was plagued by enormous irregularities and illegalities and ordered IEBC to conduct a fresh election within 60 days. The Jubilee duo has been on a poaching spree targeting Raila's allies in a scheme to bleed and weaken Raila. In an apparent statement to his arch-rival, yesterday Uhuru sought to allay anxiety over Raila's withdrawal plan. He told Raila that he can bolt if he wants. "Kenyans are tired and want to move forward. If you do not want elections, step aside so the country can move forward," Uhuru said at the Coast. Raila wants power through back door and bloodshed, Uhuru says He criticised Raila for waiting for so long if his only plan was to withdraw at the last minute or boycott. The President said Raila has been seeking excuses to withdraw from the repeat poll that will cost taxpayers as much as Sh12 billion. "We won fairly and that is why we are ready for October 26," Uhuru said the second day of his Coast tour. Speaking in Nairobi, Raila told off the President. saying he would not be blackmailed or coerced into participating in the rematch. The ex-prime minister said he has the democratic right to choose to participate or withdraw. The NASA leader said he would not be part of a "pre-rigged presidential contest". "This is a democratic society. In a democracy, there is freedom of choice. If I choose not to participate in a pre-rigged process, it is my democratic right. No court can order me,"Raila told members of the Maasai community from Kajiado. Pokot South MP David Pkosing has filed a court case to have Raila compelled to participate in rerun, or be declared a traitor for committing treason. The High Court is yet to rule on the Jubilee MP's application. Jubilee MP files petition to compel Raila to run in repeat polls The heightened harsh exchanges between Uhuru and Raila over withdrawal threats come hours after the opposition leader revealed a high-profile trip to the UK. He departs today for a lecture in the UK, 16 days to the rematch. Yesterday Raila said there's no reason for worry. He said he would deliver a lecture at Chatham House. He said he was forced to decline many other invites from renowned institutions in the US because of the current political situation in Kenya. "This is just speculation...there is no cause for alarm. I have been invited to give lectures in the US, New York and London but I have only accepted to give a lecture at Chatham House this Friday. That is a one-day trip," he said. However, Uhuru accused Raila of looking for cheap excuses to pull out of the rerun. My competitor wants to bolt with no valid reason, Uhuru said. "He [Raila] has had excuses that do not end and now he is secretly plotting to leave us in suspense but we want to tell him it shall not happen," the President told Coast supporters. Jubilee has recently been poaching influential opposition figures. Uhuru captured his longtime critic and former Wiper secretary general Hassan Omar on Sunday. Yesterday Raila played down the string of desertions from NASA, saying those who left had been lured by money. He said Jubilee has a special "defectors fund" kitty to pay off opposition leaders who decamp. "The mass defection you are witnessing is a result of the leadership of tribalism, corruption and other things. They are buying defectors to create an impression of mass defection from NASA," he said. He said his irreducible minimums have not been met.