Chelsea midfielder N'Golo Kante is facing
nearly a month on the sidelines with a muscular injury he picked
up during the international break, his manager Antonio Conte
said ahead of Saturday's Premier League trip to Crystal Palace. The France international limped off clutching his hamstring
during last week's 1-0 World Cup qualifying victory in Bulgaria
and missed his country's next game against Belarus on Tuesday. An initial scan suggested the 26-year-old would be out for
up to 25 days, but Conte is hoping a second one will give him
better news. "For sure it's a muscular problem, a hamstring," Conte told
a news conference on Friday. "This is a big loss for us. You
know very well the importance of N'Golo Kante in our team. We
don't have another player with the same characteristics. "For this reason, we are going to do another scan after one
week to understand the situation very well, and see if this scan
is better than the scan before." The champions, fourth in the table on 13 points after seven
games, have league matches against Watford and Bournemouth, as
well as a Champions League double-header with Roma and a League
Cup clash with Everton this month. They face second-placed Manchester United on November 5, and
with Tiemoue Bakayoko and Cesc Fabregas the only specialist
central midfielders available, Conte might have to turn to his
defenders or younger players to step in for Kante. "We have to find different solutions in this period, to
adapt some defenders in midfield, or give opportunities to young
players like (Kyle) Scott or (Ethan) Ampadu," he said. Striker Alvaro Morata is also out of the trip to Selhurst
Park after injuring a hamstring in the 1-0 home defeat by
Manchester City at the end of September, but could be back in
time to face Roma on Wednesday. New signing Danny Drinkwater, who is yet to play for the
club, is still out with a calf problem and Conte will be patient
with the former Leicester City midfielder. "Drinkwater is progressing well but is not ready yet," the
Italian added. "We must have patience with him, with his calf
problem."