Election observer groups on Friday said the IEBC was better prepared for Thursday’s repeat presidential election. The Election Observation Group said in 99.6 per cent of the polling stations, ballot papers were stamped with the IEBC official stamps before being issued to voters. The electronic voter identification devices failed to function properly in 4.8 per cent of the polling stations. But in at least 28.8 per cent of the polling stations observed, more than 25 people were turned away from the centres. The observer group says in 57.7 per cent of polling stations at least one person was identified manually, and not biometrically using the Kenya Integrated Electoral Management Systems. The secrecy of ballot was observed in 86 per cent of the polling stations. There were queues in poll centres by 5am. In 15 per cent of polling stations, observers said at least 25 people were being assisted to vote. The majority were women. “Our observers reported there was a printout of the data contained in KIEMS, which was used to verify voter information. This was not present during the August 8 election,” Elog executive director Regina Opondo said. In almost all polling stations observed the ballots box seals were intact before counting.  Only in one per cent did the agents request a vote recount. “For the closing and counting process, a Jubilee Party agent was present in 94. 8 per cent of the polling stations. In 95.4 per cent of the stations, a copy of the presidential results Form 34A was publicly affixed outside,” Opondo said.  “In 99.6 per cent of polling stations observed, the presiding officers properly signed the results forms 34A.” The JP agents signed the declaration of results. Observer agents witnessed signing of the forms, scanning and entry into KIEMS and confirmation messages.  However, there was disruption and destruction of polling materials in some polling stations, as well as assault of observers and IEBC officials. Opondo said more than 70 people were killed and about 60 others raped in the run-up to the election. Scores of others were injured and property worth millions of shillings destroyed.