Nyanza members of the law society have asked IEBC boss Wafula Chebukati to postpone the repeat of the presidential rerun in four counties. Led by Agrey Mwamu, the lawyers noted on Friday that "the story will be the same" should elections take place on Saturday in Kisumu, Migori, Siaya and Homa Bay. Mwamu said protests and police brutality will likely happen again. "It is not wise for IEBC to insist on conducting an election when the people expected to vote have no interest," he told the press on Friday. The lawyers condemned killings as police dispersed protesters, terming them part of a plot to profile one ethnic group. Mwamu said that in Kisumu alone, more than 36 people were admitted as a result of police brutality while four others were killed. "We have visited most of these people. They sustained serious gun shot injuries including fractures. This is in Kisumu alone. We are yet to get statistics from Siaya, Homa Bay and Migori." But IG Joseph Boinnet said police are only restoring calm and keeping peace and that police would not use excessive force. More on this: Boinnet denies use of excessive force to disperse Raila supporters The Law Society of Kenya members further noted most South Nyanza residents are Seventh Day Christians so denying them the chance to worship on the Sabbath would not be proper. "Whether Nyanza region votes or not, it will not make any change to the results," he added. "Chebukati should not insist on conducting an election in the said regions when he knows it is a recipe for violence. An election should never be a matter of life and death." Read: Saturday poll interferes with freedom of worship, ODM politicians tell Chebukati Also read: Clerics tell IEBC off over repeat election in Nyanza counties Mwamu said the society has been reliably informed that the commission is worried that if Nyanza residents do not vote,the constitutional requirement of having to conduct an election in the 290 constituencies will be put to question. This, the society says, will raise concerns of the illegitimacy of whoever will be declared after results are tabulated and verified. "If Chebukati is worried about that he should move to the Supreme Court and seek an advisory opinion on the way forward. He should stop forcing an election on people." The lawyer added that the best resolution to the stalemate does not involve force and bullets. "We can only get a solution when top leaders of this country sober up and allow national dialogue. With the current political temperatures, whoever is declared president will have a tough time uniting all Kenyans." More on poll: No need to protest, boycott Saturday polls, Raila tells supporters