When Ugandan schoolgirl Auma got her first period, she asked her
mother for sanitary pads. Her mother suggested she find herself a husband to
pay for them. Auma was just 12. Auma’s story is not uncommon. Many girls in Uganda drop out of
education when they begin menstruating because their schools lack proper
washrooms or because they cannot afford costly sanitary products, which are all
imported. Aid agency Plan International says hundreds of girls are forced
into child marriages by parents too poor to buy hygiene products. Many others are pressured into having sex by boys who offer to buy
them sanitary items in return. Some end up pregnant and drop out of school. Girl’s menstrual health, normally a taboo subject in conservative
Uganda, made headlines this year when a high profile campaigner on the issue
was arrested and detained for calling President Yoweri Museveni “a pair of
buttocks” in a Facebook post. University lecturer Stella Nyanzi unleashed a series of colourful
attacks on the President and his wife after he failed to keep an election
promise to provide sanitary pads to schoolgirls. Earlier this year, First Lady Janet Museveni, who is also the Education
minister, said the government did not have sufficient funds. Nyanzi promptly launched a crowdfunding campaign, #Pads4GirlsUg,
to collect donations for pads to be distributed at schools. She was released on bail in May after a month behind bars, but is
on trial for cyber harassment. A government official said the Education ministry was now in talks
with a national charity and a pharmaceutical company with a view to producing
free hygiene products for schoolgirls.  CHILD MARRIAGE Nyanzi’s
case has shone a spotlight on an issue that development experts say is a major
barrier to girls’ education. UN children’s agency Unicef has estimated around 60 per cent of
girls in Uganda miss class because their schools lack separate toilets and
washing facilities to help them manage their periods. Many fall behind and end up quitting school. Once out of school,
they are more likely to be married off. Patrick Adupa, Plan International’s child protection programme
manager in Uganda, said the lack of menstrual hygiene support for schoolgirls is
a strong factor in the country’s high dropout rate. More than 40 per cent of girls fail to complete primary school and
only a fifth start secondary school, Adupa said. “Education is a very powerful tool in the prevention of child
marriage,” he added. “When girls are out of school because they cannot manage their
periods, it’s hard for them to avoid marriage.” Although Uganda has banned child marriage, four in 10 girls are
wed before they turn 18, and one in 10 before 15, Unicef says. Adupa said sanitary products could cost girls around Sh200 a month
— a prohibitive price in a country where nearly one in five people lives on
less than Sh100 a day. Instead, girls often use old rags, dried leaves or grass or paper,
sometimes tearing pages from schoolbooks. Auma was lucky. Her mother did not force her to marry and she is
now 15 and still in school in Tororo district in eastern Uganda. But teenager Christine Amusugut was not so fortunate. When she
complained about using rags, her mother suggested she find a husband to buy her
hygiene products. “Most of my friends dropped out of school because they did not
have basic things they needed like sanitary pads, just like me,” she told the
Thomson Reuters Foundation by phone from Tororo. Amusugut, now 19, said she had got good grades at school and had
wanted to be a nurse, but was “sold” at 16 to her husband’s family for Sh4,000,
as her widowed mother struggled to make ends meet.  STIGMA AND BULLYING Plan
International called for Uganda to reduce the cost of sanitary pads, ensure
schools have separate girls’ toilets and introduce sex education to destigmatise
menstruation. Adupa said there is a lot of ignorance around periods. At one school, boys told aid workers they thought girls who bled
had been victims of sexual violence and drew demeaning pictures on the
blackboard. “The effect on the girls was devastating: many skipped school to
avoid the bullying. Some never returned,” Adupa said. To tackle the stigma, several aid agencies have set up menstrual
hygiene clubs at schools across the country, where girls can make their own
reusable cotton sanitary pads with removable waterproof linings. Boys are included in some clubs, taking the pads they make home to
their sisters. Uganda is not the only country looking at providing free sanitary
towels as a way to boost girls’ education levels. Kenya and Zambia have also promised to supply pads to schoolgirls —
although aid agency WaterAid said Zambia had yet to commit any funding. Economists say keeping girls in school not only protects them from
child marriage but boosts national prosperity. An educated girl is more likely to be economically productive and
to have healthier and better-educated children of her own, creating a ripple
effect. “We
have a saying in Uganda, educate a girl, educate a nation,” Adupa said.  