Roselyn Akombe on Wednesday took a swipe at the international community for backing a "deeply flawed" electoral system. In an interview with American NPR radio, the former IEBC commissioner said the countries have failed in their mandate to help Kenya prepare for a credible repeat poll. "It's a complex situation where you have the international community fully supporting the entire process without questioning any part." Akombe said in other countries the international community would have been the first to question and raise such issues. "We have not heard anybody from the international community saying that. I have worked in countries where we as the UN, we have come up and said 'yes, the technical preparations were fantastic...but the conditions under which we had the elections were not free, fair and credible'...," she said. Akombe further denied claims that she was a mole for the Opposition party. "I cannot be a crazy person who has woken up and is raising these issues. I'm speaking because I care for that country...I passionately care about my country. I do not want to see my country going down again," she said. Akombe said her parents taught her "to stick with the truth...to stand with the truth". She said she is hoping her move is a wake up call for the commission and the public to take actions to save Kenya. She noted it does not matter who takes the blame, whether Jubilee of NASA, as long as Kenya is redeemed "so it does not go down the drain". "I am speaking out because I'm hoping there are some sober heads who...sorry you got me a bit emotional...I won't be able to continue with this interview." On Wednesday, Akombe fled for her life to New York, days before the presidential rerun. She resigned, saying the October 26 repeat presidential polls "absolutely" cannot be credible as they're being organised by a very "divided commission". Akombe told the BBC, in an interview from New York, that she personally had received death threats, as had her brother, who already has fled Kenya. She said one message to her brother said: "Tell you sister to stop asking too many questions and relax or she will be Msando'd." This referred to the torture-murder of former ICT manager Chris Msando in late July. More on this: Citing death threats, Roselyn Akombe quits IEBC Also read: 'Crook or history maker'? Two women politicians speak on Akombe's move