IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati has described the disputed October 26 repeat presidential election as above-board. Speaking at Bomas of Kenya on Sunday, Chebukati said the issues he raised last week that could dent the credibility of the polls had been addressed and he was confident the process was free, fair and transparent. “As a commission we are confident the process being done in a free, fair and transparent manner,’ said a confident Chebukati. Last week, hours after resignation of ex-Commissioner Roselyn Akombe, Chebukati confessed he could not guarantee a credible exercise on October 26. He cited division at the Commission which he claimed was making his work difficult as the chairman. Read: It's hard to guarantee free election, IEBC won't tolerate threats - Chebukati Also read: Chebukati vows to defend constitution, asks implicated officials to resign Chebukati also took to explain about his October 26 tweet which claimed that only 6,553,858 participated in the repeat exercise clarifying that was the figure by 4 pm on October 26 and that the Commission received more results thereafter. The IEBC boss yesterday put the total voter turnout at 42.8 percent translating to 7,573,903 captured by the KIEMs gadgets as having cast their votes. The number could however rise given that some voters who could not be identified by the KIEMs gadgets were identified alpha-numerically and the Commission could not readily identify their figures yesterday. “We urge for patience as a comprehensive report is finalized to include reports from all stations that opened and polling took place in respect of the fresh presidential election,” stated Chebukati. At 8 pm yesterday, the Commission had physically received and verified 259 Forms 34Bs. By the time of going to press, President uhuru Kenyatta had a commanding lead garnering 7,433,190 followed by NASA leader Raila Odinga who had 70,710 votes. Raila withdrew from the race three weeks ago after its list of changes were rejected by the poll’s body. Ekuru Aukot (Thirdway Alliance) was third with 20,936, Abduba Dida (Alliance for real Change) had 14,048, Independent candidates Joseph Kaluyu 8,244, Michael Wainanaina 5,995, Joseph Nyaga 5,506 and Cyrus Jirongo managing a paltry 3,825. More on this: Raila's withdrawal from fresh vote recipe for deeper crisis, Chebukati warns    