MRC has distanced itself from leaflets found at Mama Ngina Drive where NASA will hold a grand rally on Sunday. The unsigned leaflets warned of dire consequences should the meeting take place. "Sisi viongozi wa Mombasa Republican Council hatutaki mkutano utakaofanyika Jumapili tarehe 15/10/2017 uwanja wa Mama Ngina na maandamano ya Jumatatu tarehe 16/10/2017," read the leaflets in part. This translates to: "We the leadership of Mombasa Republican Council don’' want the meeting on Sunday 15/10/2017 at Mama Ngina and demonstrations on Monday 16/10/2017." MRC deputy spokesperson Richard Lewa told The Star they had nothing to do with the leaflets. "We are apolitical. We are not affiliated to any political side," said Lewa. The deputy spokesperson pointed the finger at the government saying they might be planning to attack them. "The government must come out clearly and say who is behind the leaflets because they have the machinery to do so." The leaflets threaten Governor Hassan Joho and MPs Abdulswamad Nassir (Mvita), Mishi Mboko (Likoni) and Badi Twalib (Jomvu). The four were most involved in planning the rally. Read: NASA will ensure 'proper liberation', election details at mega rally - Nassir Coast regional police commander Larry Kieng' said they were investigating the authenticity of the leaflets. "Whoever will be found culpable will be arrested and charged in court," Kieng said on Sunday. He said all policeofficers are on the lookout as all units were alerted. "The venue for the NASA rally will be secured to the maximum," he noted.  A leaflet found at Mama Ngina Drive ahead of NASA's mega rally in Mombasa on October 15, 2017. This comes after Jubilee Party leaders campaigned in Mombasa on Saturday. Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko addressed residents of Kombani in Kwale constituency in the evening after a series of mini-rallies to drum up support for the President. Kombani is perceived to be a stronghold of the MRC. Sonko told residents the government will address the joblessness in the area and other parts of Kwale. He said lack of employment leads youth into vices. "Most of the youth here are jobless," he said. "I will ensure your welfare in Uhuru Kenyatta's government is well taken care of." The Governor said he will take the government to Kombani and ensure they get help. Read: We'll swear-in Uhuru, foreigners can't force power-sharing, says Sonko