All peace-loving Kenyans have been horrified by developments at the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission over the last 48 hours. First was Commissioner Roselyn Akombe's resignation and escape to the USA. As she has explained, a majority of her former colleagues at the Commission have absconded their oath of office and turned so politically partisan that her continued presence among them was adding no value to the preparations for the October 26 election. Her honest assessment is that the IEBC, as currently constituted, cannot conduct any election that meets the standard set by the Supreme Court ruling of September 1. She has told the world that the so-called election being organized by the IEBC is a sham. She has shared inside information revealing how the IEBC has been hijacked and is run by Jubilee Party, through commissioners and top secretariat officials who coordinate with the Jubilee campaign in all but name.  Dr Akombe confessed and confirmed that Chairman Wafula Chebukati, who is the National Returning Officer for the presidential election, is virtually a prisoner held hostage by Jubilee. Yesterday, Chebukati, speaking as the National Returning Officer for the presidential election, made an exceptional confession in a speech to the country. Chebukati echoed Dr Akombe explicitly announcing that the IEBC, in its current aberration, as a playground for Jubilee, cannot guarantee the credibility of the October 26 election. Short of announcing his resignation, Chebukati requested for a rethink on the election date. He said the Commission is divided and attempts to make crucial changes to ensure a free, fair and credible election are sabotaged by Jubilee-leaning commissioners. Chebukati was categorical that these commissioners were forcing the Commission to accept legal opinions that serve partisan interests and are not grounded in the Constitution or the law. NASA is therefore at a loss why Jubilee is hustling the country towards a Sh12 billion disaster. We are, however, alarmed and disturbed that even with serious reservations by IEBC itself about its inability to guarantee the credibility of the October 26 election, President Uhuru Kenyatta, his Deputy William Ruto and sections of the international community, including election observer missions, still insist on IEBC holding the election. This is confirmation that all those pushing for the election to proceed want any kind of election; in name only, but lacking in content. The writer is the Chairman, NASA National Campaign Committee