Ekuru Aukot says it is unfortunate that IEBC had underestimated him and his candidature for State House. The Thirdway Alliance leader said this on Wednesday while welcoming  theHigh Court judgement for the commission to put his name on the ballot for the repeat presidential race. "I find nothing to bar the petitioner from contesting the fresh election," said Justice John Mativo. Read: Court orders IEBC to include Aukot in repeat polls Aukot polled less than one per cent in the August 8 vote. Outside the court, he told reporters he still had concerns about the election board and would issue a statement in a day or two giving clarity about his plans. "We stood firm with the rule of law and are now celebrating the benefits of our belief," he said. "[IEBC chairman Wafula] Chebukati and his commission underestimated us but let me remind him to never underestimate the power of small people. If you do, try sleeping in a dark room with a mosquito." Aukot said his party will meet its national executive committee to deliberate to discuss campaigns. "As you all know, we have not been campaigning since we were waiting for the court's decision. But now we are vindicated. We have to retreat to see how to engage IEBC going forward." The politician said a comprehensive statement will follow the discussions and that they will speak on issues including the commission's capability to man the election. "It is common knowledge that the Supreme Court raised key issues touching on the commission. The issues, including action against the bad elements that bungled the election,  must be addressed conclusively," he said. On whether he will join the 'no reforms no elections' group - NASA - Aukot said the matter will be well dealt with in the retreat. NASA candidate Raila Odinga withdrew from the race on Tuesday and demanded fresh nominations and a fresh election. In his response to the news, President Uhuru Kenyatta termed him unjust and said he was wasted the public's money. More on this: Raila withdraws from race, demands fresh election Also read: Raila unjust for wasting Kenyans' Sh12b, we're ready for swearing-in - UhuRuto Aukot's lawyer Elias Mutuma said the judgement will likely solve the looming constitutional crisis following Raila's withdrawal. "I assure all Kenyans there is justice in courts and our judiciary is fully working," Mutuma said. Read: Court orders IEBC to include Aukot in repeat polls 