Persistent calls for dialogue every five years are not good for a democratic country, the National Assembly deputy speaker has said. There has been a dispute since the original election on August 8 following Opposition leader Raila Odinga's successful petition against President Uhuru Kenyatta's victory. Uhuru insisted the repeat October 26 vote was legitimate but Raila, who is now leading a national resistance movement, said IEBC must implement reforms. Members of the public including politicians and religious leaders have asked them to talk so the prolonged political season can end. They have refused to back down. More on this: Raila kneeling before Europeans, Kofi Annan not welcome, says Uhuru Also read: We can only talk after Thursday election, Uhuru tells Raila Deputy speaker Moses Cheboi said Raila has been depending on conditional dialogues to ascend to power. Addressing the press in his Kuresoi home on Friday, the Kuresoi North MP said the calls render meaningless the voice of the people. "The voice of the people spoken through elections is paramount. Frequent calls for dialogue are not good." Raila disputed the 2007 election and formed a coalition government with Mwai Kibaki forming intervention by Kofi Annan. This time round he has said he is not interested in a nusu mkate (half loaf of bread) government. Read: Raila: I can talk to Uhuru, but not on power sharing "CHOOSE GROWTH OVER RESISTANCE" Cheboi asked National Assembly legislators to close gaps that disregard electoral decisions so as to stabilise the country. The third term MP extended an olive branch to Raila, asking him not to carry on with the resistance and join other Kenyans to build the country. "The country is already down to its knees economically. I urge Raila to be considerate in his pronouncements," he said. Cheboi praised Jubilee Party supporters for turning up in large numbers to stamp the decision they made in August - that Uhuru should serve another five years. "The turnout was good for such an election. I am sure Jubilee votes will slightly surpass the August numbers," he said. More on this: Drop in Uhuru votes exposes Jubilee-IEBC fraud, says Mudavadi Nakuru Deputy Governor Erick Korir and Kuresoi south MP Joseph Tonui echoed Cheboi's sentiments in their addresses after the announcement of results at the constituency tallying centre. Tonui urged the Opposition chief to accept the people's decision and wait for the 2022 election. Korir asked Nyanza voters to maintain peace and express their wishes by participating in the election as directed by IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati. "This is a mature country. We should only express ourselves without hurting fellow Kenyans and destroying their property." Read: IEBC postpones elections in Nyanza, to announce new dates  