Many FGM cases are still reported in some pastoral communities where parents are resorting to devious ways to circumvent the law. According to a 2015 health report, the rate of FGM was 94 per cent in Garissa.  It was followed by Samburu county at 86 per cent. The World Health Organization has described FGM as any procedure that injures the female genital organs for non-medical reasons.  Anti-FGM Board chief executive officer Benardet Loloju yesterday said, “One trick they are using is to secretly circumcise girls at 3am when people are asleep without the usual ceremonies.” She said some health workers are abetting the crime by circumcising girls and nursing them in health facilities, claiming they have a suffering from an illness. “They are taking children to hospitals for circumcision, where they are cut and admitted to heal as they pretend to be suffering from a disease,” Loloju said. She said the Board is in talks with health staff to end the practice, or face punishment. Loloju said other parents are circumcising their girls when they are infants. “Some of them have even resorted to cutting their girls when they are eight days old,” she said.  Loloju spoke at the Samburu Girls Rescue Centre during a training and male public forum against FGM.  The International Day of the Girl Child is on Wednesday, October 11 and it will be celebrated in Loosuk, Samburu county. Some men in Samburu county are supporting girls education and anti-FGM efforts. But some say they don’t understand why the government enacted laws making FGM a crime. Mzee Kijana Lalkailepi has promised to be an anti-FGM ambassador. He said he will persuade men in his village to shun the harmful cultural practice.  “I have never been informed persuasively why female circumcision is bad.  “We have not seen any harm from circumcising girls as our mothers were circumcised and successfully conceived us without problems,” Wiso Lengulasai said. Loloju urged communities that still practice FGM to show they value their girls more than cows —which are paid as bride price — by educating them. “If you empower your girl through education to an independent level, she would be like a cow that never ceases to produce milk,” she said. 