Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko will reorganize the Finance Department after county staff complained of delayed September salaries. "It is unfortunate that the delay has been occasioned by sabotage in the Finance Department. I wish to pass my sincere apologies," Sonko said on his Twitter account on Wednesday. Sonko said the delay was occasioned by outgoing Finance CEC who deliberately refused to make a formal request to the Controller of Budget to release funds on time.  "This is highly regrettable; nevertheless it is being addressed with the urgency it deserves," he said. He said to address the "unfortunate" occurrence, heads will roll at the finance department. "It has further come to my attention that the matter is a fight back plot by a cartel from Finance, Legal, Rates and Revenue Departments who upon leaving office vowed to paralyze operations at City Hall," he said. Sonko said he shall not be intimidated by cartels adding that the staff should be patient as they wait for their salaries. "No amount of threats shall make me give roadside executive orders against the constitution to please a few individuals. Efforts are being made to ensure such delays do not re-occur in the future," he said. This came a day after Nairobi county employees threatened to paralyse operations over harassment, intimidation and threats by Sonko. KCGWU secretary general Roba Duba told journalists that several workers have been sacked, suspended or sent on compulsory leave on flimsy grounds. "The law requires that if you are suspended or sent on compulsory leave, the reasons for these must be given because you are sent home for doing something wrong." More on this: Nairobi workers accuse Sonko of intimidation The workers' lamentations comes on the backdrop of the suspension of more than 50 senior staff and arrest of the union's officials over a foiled strike meant to address salary delays. Sonko has suspended or sent on compulsory leave more than 50 senior employees at the county. He says that the officers are part of the corruption network and land grabbing racket that have been fleecing residents. Read: Nairobi suspends executive functions until Sonko takes office