Former Kilome MP John Harun Mwau is seeking to stop the IEBC from holding the repeat presidential election scheduled for October 26. He says the conduct of the rerun is in violation of the Constitution. The case came 10 days to the repeat election. Mwau says after the August 8 election results were nullified by the Supreme Court, the IEBC should have conducted nominations before ordering the rerun. The apex court directed the IEBC to conduct a fresh presidential election in 60 days, as required by the Constitution. Mwau’s case seeks orders on whether a legitimate election can be held on the basis of nominations, which, according to the petitioner, have already been quashed by the Supreme Court. Mwau has sued the IEBC and its chairman Wafula Chebukati. He says the matter is grave and should be heard quickly. In his suit papers, Mwau is of the view that the election, if conducted without fresh nominations, risks being nullified by the apex court. “It’s clear if respondents continue with the election as stated in the Gazette notice, it is susceptible to nullification by the Supreme Court, subjecting the public and the nation to great expense, detriment, uncertainty and loss,” he says. The former legislator argues that nomination is an express and unambiguous legal prerequisite for a presidential election and it cannot be presumed in law or waived. He wants the court to issue a declaration that a presidential election can be won either by a candidate who has complied with the requirements to make him the only candidate nominated for a race, or, where two or more are nominated, by the one who gets most votes casts and receives at least 25 per cent of votes cast in each of 24 counties or more. Also sought is a declaration that the IEBC or Chebukati does not have the power to waive nomination requirements. NASA flagbearer Raila Odinga is on record saying he will not participate in the repeat election. The alliance says the IEBC has failed to comply with ‘minimum-irreducible’ demands that would ensure the election is credible, free and fair. The IEBC has said it will go ahead with the poll. It says all the candidates in the August 8 election, save for UDP’s Cyrus Jirongo, will participate. The IEBC has rejected Raila’s withdrawal from the race. It said he did not follow the right procedure, hence his name will be on ballot.