Olympic marathon champion Eliud Kipchoge will be seeking a hat-trick of the AIMS Best Marathon Runner Award next month. Kipchoge clinched the Berlin marathon last month for the second time in three years despite failing to breaking the world record. In May this year alongside, clocked 2:00.25 in an attempt at breaking the two hour hark in the marathon in Italy in a field that had Ethiopia’s Lelisa Desisa and Eritrean Zersensay Tadese. Kipchoge will face world marathon champion Geoffrey Kirui, for the coveted award. Kirui stormed to victory at the world event in London this year. He also won the Boston marathon this year by clocking 2:09:37 Kipchoge has won eight out on the nine marathons he has competed in since switching from the track in 2013. He has won the award for th past two seasons and is an overwhelming favourite to make it three years in a row. Previous winners have included world marathon record holder Dennis Kimetto and Florence Kiplagat in 2014, Wilson Kipsang and Edna Kiplagat in 2013. Candidates for the female award are Rose Chelimo, 2017 IAAF World Marathon Champion and Mary Keitany, winner of the London Marathon in a new women-only world record time of 2:17:01, shaving 41 seconds off Paula Radcliffe’s previous record set in 2005 in London. Keitany is also targeting a third award to add to her 2009 and 2011 feats. Chelimo beat two times world marathon champion Kiplagat in the last kilometre to win in 2:27:11. Disgraced women’s Olympic marathon champion Jemimah Sumgong won last year’s award. “In addition to the BMR Awards, runners who have displayed best practice in environmental and social policies will be presented with the AIMS Green Award and the AIMS Social Award respectively,” said the statement. Elsewhere Edwin Kiptoo is set to defend his Blom Bank Beirut Marathon on November 12 “I remember something big,” he says of his initial trip to Beirut. “I didn’t expect to win the race, so, when I think of going back to Beirut, I just remember a big victory in my running career. It was a highlight in my running career, a day that I won’t forget in my life. I believe that when you train hard and are disciplined in all that you are doing in your daily life, you will get victories. I believe that being the boss over your own life will make you reach far.” After a third place finish at the 2016 Brighton Marathon, a race in which he set his personal best time of 2:11:29, he turned his attention to a an autumn marathon accepting an invitation to race Beirut. But the unseasonably warm day, 25 C with no cloud cover, coupled with a difficult course meant his winning time was ‘only’ 2:13:19. 