Deputy President William Ruto now claims that NASA coalition hired Militia men to block the repeat of presidential election. Ruto on Saturday exclusively told CNN that a lot of Kenyans were ready to participate in the repeat polls but were threatened by their NASA competitors. Ruto further dismissed claims that the low voter turn out experienced in the polls was occasioned by Raila Odinga's withdrawal from the race. He said to them majority of Kenyans had cast their vote and only a few in specific areas would not manage due to fear of their lives. "We are reliably aware that our competitors blocked voting in some areas through violent protests orchestrated by hired militia but that does not mean that an election did not happen. The rest of the country voted peacefully," Ruto said. Ruto said Odinga had organised Militia groups in his strongholds to intimidate and harass election officials with an aim to portray that people in his region did not vote. He said through the organised violence, about 9 percent of Kenyans in the affected areas were denied their constitutional right to vote. If it is true that people in his region did not vote let them remove all the militia and allow IEBC to conduct an election, they will be surprised at the overwhelming turn out," he said. The DP said it was the worst kind of injustice to deny innocent Kenyans a chance to vote and such moves should not be allowed to go unpunished. Ruto dismissed allegations by NASA coalition that only 3.5 million Kenyans had cast their vote. Read: 'Uhuru rigging against himself': Raila claims ROs asked to beef up numbers "It is incorrect for Odinga to say only 3.5 million turned out. More than 7.5 million turned out. Odinga wants to peddle a narrative that suits his political propaganda," Ruto said. He said the announcement made earlier by IEBC chairman indicating that only 6.5 million Kenyans had voted in the October 26 was just an estimation. "Repeat elections have a characteristic of low voter turnout world wide. Where a candidate boycotts an election, intimidates by sponsoring violence and blackmail on citizens is worse. The 40 per cent turn out in our case is a record," he said. He said as per the constitutional requirements, President Uhuru Kenyatta has already surpassed the minimum threshold of more than 50 percent of total votes cast. "We have over 25 percent in 44 counties and soon after the final tally the chairman will make a declaration and Uhuru will be sworn in as per our constitution," Ruto said.                    