On September 15, Kenya and Tanzania celebrated the 6th Mara Day celebrations, with Tanzania’s Environment minister January Makamba declaring that saving the Mara River basin from degradation is now a matter of ‘life and death’. Makamba, who represented Tanzania’s Vice President Samia Hassan during the celebrations at Tarime grounds, said: “Conservation and protection of the Mara River Basin ecosystem is not a joking affair. It is a matter of life and death.” He said without Mara River, the survival of the world famous Serengeti National Park is threatened with extinction. Mara River flows from Mau Complex through two tributaries, Nyangores and Amala, which coalesce to form the Mara River. “If we don’t sustainably manage this resource, there will be no foreign exchange, agricultural activities will be affected throwing the country into economic ruin,” Makamba said. He said Kenya and Tanzania have signed an agreement that provides a framework for joint conservation and sustainable utilisation the basin’s resources. “Mara River is the only natural resource that has a day dedicated to it. This shows the importance of the river to over one million inhabitants of the basin, and we should do all we can to protect it,” added the MP for Bumbuli. THREATS TO ITS EXISTENCE Some of the threats against the basin’s ecosystem include increased deforestation, poor mining practices, poor farming methods, uncontrolled water abstraction, pollution and unchecked development. The ecosystem is shared between Kenya and Tanzania at a 65 to 35 per cent basis. Mara River is a major source of water to Lake Victoria, Maasai Mara game reserve and Serengeti National Park. Makamba welcomed efforts by the two countries and development partners, including USAid East Africa, to reduce the threats, saying significant progress has been made. He said instead of the day being limited to tree planting, procession, entertainment and speeches, it should be preceded by a symposium on the basin’s conservation. “We should have a conference with the people of the basin, experts, researchers, policy makers, development partners and politicians, where recommendations are made. In the following year, we should look at the level of implementation of the recommendations,” he said. Lake Victoria Basin Commission (LVBC) executive secretary Ally-Said Matano agreed with the idea. “It is very important to have dialogue with various players, so the aspect of a symposium will be revisited,” he said. LVBC facilitates, promotes and coordinates development and environmental initiatives on the basin aimed at addressing challenges in poverty and sustainable development on behalf of the East Africa Community. “We have held five celebrations in Mulot, Mugumu, Narok, Butiama and Butiama. These events should not be just events but conservation stories worth our jubilations, expressions towards conservation and regional integration,” Matano said. Nicholas ole Murero, the vice chairman of Narok County Natural Resources Forum, said: “People living here are now aware of the dangers facing the Mara River Basin. Some have participated in efforts to reverse the worrying trend.” He said residents are participating in conservation efforts and cases of human-wildlife conflict have gone down. PARTNERSHIP BENEFITS Regional Prepared project coordinator Mathias Chemonges praised the deepening partnership as one of the highly celebrated outcomes of the Mara conservation processes between the two countries. “This partnership has cascaded down to lower levels between non-state actors such as Mara-Serengeti Hoteliers Forum (MSHF) and Water Users Associations,” he said. Chemonges said the coming together of state and non-state actors towards sustainable conservation of the Mara ecosystem at strategic and operational levels has triggered the formation of Resource Efficiency Partnership. “This model will not only transform conservation practices in Mara Region, it is likely to be replicated in other regions as a success story. So far, it has proven to be a resource-efficient, eco-friendly and sustainable model,” he said. The Resource Efficiency Partnership includes the Mara-Serengeti Hoteliers Forum (MSHF), BASF East Africa, LVBC, National Environmental Management Authority (Nema), and Water Resource Management Authority (Warma) of the Lake Victoria region. USAid Kenya deputy director for environment Brad Arsenault said Mara River needs to be protected not only because it is a one-of-a-kind migration phenomenon and natural beauty but also because it is critical for people’s livelihoods in Kenya, Tanzania and throughout East Africa. “Although the Mara River is a critical resource for East Africa’s economic and social development, its survival is threatened by unsustainable development patterns and climate change. The threats can only be overcome by working together at national and regional levels,” he said. He praised Kenya and Tanzania for their unwavering commitment to the conservation on Mara River’s resources. Arsenault congratulated the East Africa Community and Lake Victoria Basin for taking a leading role in supporting effective management of East Africa’s transboundary natural resources. He said USAid Kenya and East Africa will deepen their longstanding partnerships with the EAC and the LVBC.  “The strategy affirms our commitment to East African-led economic growth that is both sustainable in its management of natural resources across natural borders as well as resilient in the face of climate changes,” Arsenault said.  He called on the EAC and the LVBC to take best practices to other critical ecosystems in the regions. Kenya’s Environment PS Charles Sunkuli said: “Mara River is a resource we must diligently plan and manage sustainably.” He said Kenya and Tanzania are committed to implementing their agreement, which they will use as a vehicle for negotiating equitable access and use of the Mara River. The PS called on regional institutions, academia and scientific communities to provide the information needed by the two governments to advance the sustainable development of the Mara water resources in a manner that wards off conflicts.