President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto yesterday promised to unite all Kenyans after the “divisive” repeat presidential election. The two spoke separately after voting, assuring Kenyans of better days ahead. “Campaigns are divisive and it is the responsibility of whoever is elected President to deal with those divisions, to heal and bring the country together,” Uhuru said at Mutomo Primary School polling station, Kiambu county. He said he is committed to equity and inclusivity through a transformation agenda that seeks to lift the lives of all Kenyans. Uhuru emphasised the need for Kenyans to promote peace, shun ethnicity and live in harmony. “We must remove ethnicity that is curtailing our progress. We have to work together to achieve the country’s development targets,” he said. The President said no Kenyans should be denied their right to vote. He assured adequate security to deal with those disturbing the peace. “Those who are desirous to vote should be allowed to vote. Those who do not want to vote also have the right not to. But no right supersedes the other,” he said. Uhuru was accompanied by First Lady Margaret Kenyatta and his mother, founding First Lady Mama Ngina Kenyatta, Kiambu Governor Ferdinard Waititu and Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria. In Uasin Gishu, Ruto voted at Kosachei Primary School. He appealed to Kenyans to respect the rights of every individual who wishes to participate in the election. Ruto said even though every citizen has a right to choose whether to vote, it was unfortunate that some leaders “had imposed their decision not to vote on their supporters”. “Some Kenyans may not have the freedom to vote because of the will imposed on them by their leaders,” he said. “I ask Kenyans to respect the right of those who do not want to vote and those who want to vote.” Ruto said the right gives Kenyans the opportunity to choose their leaders. He told Kenyans to accept the will of the majority. “The opportunity to vote is sacrosanct. It’s the single-most important democratic exercise in any nation,” he said. Ruto added it was time the country moved on and focussed on development projects, instead constant campaigns and politicking.