More Opposition leaders have rebuked acting security minister Fred Matiang'i for banning their demonstrations in Nairobi, Kisumu and Mombasa's city centres. The Interior ministry said the mass action should no longer take place as property has been damaged. He aslo said the government is facing a growing threat amid preparations for the repeat race to State House on October 26. Read: Matiang'i bans demos in Nairobi, Kisumu, Mombasa CBDs after NASA threats In an address at Uhuru Park in Nairobi on Friday, Siaya Senator James Orengo termed Matiang'i's order "hot air", saying he has no power to ban demos. Orengo, who is one of NASA's lawyers, said the move violates the right to freedom of assembly and peaceful picketing. He dismissed claims that a section of their supporters have caused grave damage to private property either by looting or pelting stones. "We have been peaceful since we started our demos. It is only some bad elements, who are not NASA supporters, who have taken advantage to loot property around KenCom and Koja Mosque. Police should investigate and prosecute those found guilty." This was the message by Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko on Thursday. More on this: Sonko rebukes 'NASA hooligans', wants looters arrested, prosecuted LETTER SENT TO BOINNET Orengo said they asked IG Joseph Boinnet and other security agencies for explanations on why their mass action has been banned in the cities. He said they need to explain this in writing and that if dissatisfied, they will move to court. "The constitution says it is up to police to protect those demonstrating and protect peoples property. We presume Matiang'i's order was hot air. From here we are marching to IEBC headquarters as we have always done." Orengo further accused President Uhuru Kenyatta of taking the country back to a retrogressive state by approving the election amendments and the election offences Bills. He said this is clear indication Kenya is headed back to one-party democracy as Uhuru is signing laws that favour him. "We can, for sure, say Kenya is turning into a banana republic. We strongly condemn such moves and assure that our quest for justice shall go on." Homa Bay Woma Rep Gladys Wanga said NASA supporters are not going to surrender their right to demonstrate "just because of such intimidation". Wanga said even though their venue - Uhuru Park - has been surrounded by the military, their quest to assemble and march to push for reforms at IEBC is unstoppable. Related news: NASA chiefs to hold mega Mombasa rally, Matiang'i persona non grata - Nassir Also read: NASA demos: Cops teargas Nairobians, anger Kisumu with water cannon  