Five Embu legislators have demanded James Orengo's arrest for saying NASA leader will be sworn-in as president should IEBC declare Uhuru Kenyatta winner of the re-run. The lawmakers demanded that Orengo be charged with treason for saying the National Super Alliance will inaugurate the Opposition leader. Raila withdrew from the election saying the result was pre-determined and has said "Uhuru is rigging against Kenyatta". More on this: 'Uhuru rigging against himself': Raila claims ROs asked to beef up numbers Led by Siaya Senator Orengo and former Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama, the politicians said on October 28 that they do not recognise Uhuru as President. Addressing the public at Athi River town in Mavoko, Machakos county, the politicians maintained Raila remains the people's president. Orengo said: "We will use August 8 results to swear NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga if Uhuru Kenyatta tries to use October 26 poll results to be sworn-in." More on this: NASA vow to swear-in Raila if IEBC declares Uhuru winner The Monday demand was by Embu Senator Njeru Ndwiga and MPs Mbeere North (Charles Njagagua), Mbeere South (Geoffrey King'ang'i), Manyatta (John Muchiri) and Cecily Mbarire (Nominated) The five asked IG Joseph Boinett to arrest Orengo immediately and charge him with treason for "inflammatory remarks" that could cause chaos. They said the President won the election fairly and that he should be declared winner and inaugurated. The politicians further said votes which would have come from the four counties cannot surpass the 7.4 million Uhuru has. Speaking to The Star separately, the legislators said Orengo knows the move is unconstitutional and unlawful and that Raila has no legal authority to be the country' "I am not surprised by the remarks since the alliance has already converted into a resistance movement. I consider this just one of the moves the resistance is planning to make," said Njagagua. "They should know Kenya is not a banana republic and that  they will be dealt with accordingly." Ndwiga said Orengo is a seasoned lawyer but that the threat shows Kenyans the Opposition has reached "very high levels of desperation because everything they have peddled to their listeners has ended up being trash". He said the public should start seeing Opposition leaders for who they are as their propaganda is "below all levels of nonsense". Kenya must move on, he said. Kingangi condemned Opposition leaders' remarks "in the strongest possible terms". "What laws are they going to use to implement their plan? NASA has started behaving like a militia group. I wonder whether this is what they meant by changing into a resistance movement," he said. Mbarire said: "NASA wants to spark civil strife. They have thrown the constitution out of the window and are using jungle rule to get power. This should not be allowed."  Muchiri said no government agency can be on the side of anybody illegally declaring himself president and that Orengo is a lawyer but is deliberately acting like an amateur so Uhuru can get the top seat illegally. The politicians said Raila has not won any constitutionally conducted presidential election since the August 8 vote was cancelled. The Supreme Court ordered a repeat because there was no winner, they said, and accused the ODM leader of disrupting the election in Kisumu, Migori, Siaya and Homa Bay counties. The leaders wondered who will declare Raila winner since only IEBC and a Chief Justice have the powers. They said since the Opposition lost all the available chances to get power legally, they are frustrated, desperate and trying anything to cause civil strife and the creation of a caretaker government. Jubilee Party leaders want Uhuru declared president and inaugurated to prevent deaths, destruction of property and loss of lives. IEBC will make the announcement at 3.30pm. More on this: [VIDEO] Declare Uhuru president, Nyanza counties won't affect outcome - Balala, Hassan Omar Also read: Declare Uhuru president, delays will cause instability, Kimaiyo tells Chebukati