NASA
leaders in Mombasa are "out to impress their master Raila Odinga" at the
expense of residents, Jubilee politician Abdulsalaam Kassim has said. Kassim
said demonstrations in the county led by ODM's Hassan Joho are disruptive and will not achieve
anything. He
said Joho has snubbed the mass action and handed the
mantle to Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir because he is "seeing the light". "The
demonstrations do not help the people of Mombasa. They are only used to ensure
certain people give CDF money to certain people in the name of organising demos." He
spoke to The Star in Mombasa on Saturday. Nassir said on Friday that the demonstrations in the city are peaceful. "There
has not been any destruction of property or any unruly behaviour in Mombasa.
The demos have been peaceful," he said. This was part of his response to a ban by acting Interior CS Fred Matiang'i on protests in Mombasa, Nairobi and Kisumu CBDs. Nassir announced a mega rally by NASA chiefs Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka, Moses Wetang'ula and Musalia Mudavadi and said on Saturday that directions on elections will be given. The MP had been tasked with taking over NASA campaigns in Mombasa before presidential candidate Raila Odinga withdrew from the rerun set for October 26. More on this: NASA will ensure 'proper liberation', election details at mega rally - Nassir "DEMOS FOR SERVICES" Kassim
claimed one of the CDF offices in Mombasa has been denying constituents services
unless they take part in demonstrations.  He refused to name them but said "this
is what is going on in that CDF office. People are not getting services unless
they participate in the demos. I will expose them soon". The legislator noted Mombasa is the second biggest city in Kenya and the second highest
contributor to the exchequer so it does not need any disturbances. "If
the economy of Mombasa is affected, the economy of the country will be affected. The demos affect the tourism, business and social sectors of the Mombasa
economy." The politician, who vied for Mombasa Senator, said Western countries
are waiting for any slight symptoms of unrest to issue travel advisories which
will in turn affect tourism, an important sector in Mombasa. Kassim asked Nassir not to allow his constituency to be the headquarters of
demonstrations in Mombasa.  The
Mombasa CBD is in Mvita constituency which covers the whole of Mombasa Island. The politician said NASA lawmakers should focus on initiating
projects instead of leading demonstrations. "There
are only one or two MPs in Mombasa who have initiated projects from scratch.
The others just renovate buildings," he said. Earlier today, President Uhuru Kenyatta asked Raila to focus on vote-hunting and development instead of "acting as the chairman of IEBC" and losing focus. He reiterated that his NASA challenger is not interested in the rerun and is seeking options to get to power. Read more: Raila kneeling before Europeans, Kofi Annan not welcome, says Uhuru CROWD MARCHES AGAINST NASA DEMOS A group held protests on Saturday to denounce NASA demonstrations at the Mombasa CBD. The business people, youths and elders from various communities walked along Moi Avenue and Digo Road to Marikiti market. They were accompanied by police and traffic officers stopped vehicles for them to march in the central business district. Anastacia Mutheu, a trader at Kongowea, said they will not let anyone destroy their businesses in the name of demonstrating. "Why do you pay youths, give them drugs and alcohol them allow them to compete with police officers who are armed? If they think they won, we should meet again at the ballot box," she said. "Let those leaders bring their sons, daughters and wives to the demonstrations." The protesters noted theirs was a peaceful march. Mutheu noted she lost her property in the 2007-2008 clashes so she will not let this happen again. She added that since the start of the demonstrations, the supply of goods from upcountry has destabilised as traders are anxious. Acting Interior minister Fred Matiang'i banned protests in the city centres of Nairobi, Kisumu and Mombasa, citing negative effects on the economy and a growing threat for the government. Police teargassed NASA supporters in several parts on Friday and several people were killed later in the day. Read: Three shot dead in Bondo as anti-IEBC demos turn bloody Also read: NASA demos: Three shot, six injured, Chiloba and Matiang'i 'buried' in Nyanza