The quintessential US retired diplomat Dr Henry Kissinger used to say in the 1980s that America has no permanent friends or enemies, only interests. Kissinger was paraphrasing mid-19th Century British statesman Lord Palmerston who said of the British government, “We have no eternal allies, and we have no perpetual enemies. Our interests are eternal and perpetual,” a maxim that’s alive in both US and UK politics to this day. American history is replete with examples of this maxim. In 1953, the CIA and the UK’s MI6 overthrew the elected government of Mohammed Mossadegh, whose sin from Britain’s point of view, was nationalising the oil industry, ending the BP monopoly in Iraq. Prior to this, Mossadegh was a darling of the West but that changed when he nationalised BP, and became an enemy of the West who had to be removed from power. Mohammad Shah, who temporarily fled to Italy when initial efforts to topple Mossadegh failed, returned after the CIA finally succeeded in ousting the Prime Minister, and ruled as a brutal Western puppet until the Iranian Revolution in 1979. Meanwhile, in Iraq, after the British-backed monarchy was overthrown in 1958 by General Abdul Qasim, the CIA hired a 22-year-old Iraqi Saddam Hussein to assassinate the new President. The attempt failed but Saddam would later emerge as a key figure in Iraq, taking over as President in 1979. Then US Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld and other US officials welcomed Saddam as an ally against Iran.However, and true to the maxim that America has no permanent friends or enemies, only interests, the US turned against Saddam after he invaded Kuwait. He was a marked man from then on until his capture on December 13, 2003 and to the day he drew his last breath on December 30, 2006. He was executed. In the 1980s, the US worked with Pakistan and Saudi Arabia to overthrow Afghanistan’s socialist government and Osama Bin Laden, who was fighting alongside other US-backed forces against the Soviets the Socialist government had invited to help them cling to power would mastermind and have the 9/11 attacks executed, making him US’s Enemy Number One to the day he was killed on May 2, 2011. While the US and UK were busy in these never-ending dramas in the Middle East, China was making inroads in Africa on such a scale such that the number of Chinese-funded projects in Africa increased by more than 100 per cent in 2016, compared to the previous year, according to EY, formerly Ernst & Young. By contrast, the number of American foreign direct investment projects in Africa fell by 5.2 per cent in 2016, although the US remains the leading overall investor in Africa. Not only that, Beijing has also been a huge contributor of development assistance to African countries. At a 2015 China-Africa Summit in Johannesburg, South Africa, Chinese President Xi Jinping pledged $60 billion in assistance, including grants, loans and aid to the continent. This points to one inescapable conclusion: The US is very keen on what’s going on in Africa in general, and Kenya in particular, such that what happens at the polls is very much their interest much as it is ours and even more so, given these geopolitical considerations. NASA will make a big mistake to think severely and publicly criticising, trashing or being dismissive of the US is the way to go simply because they seem to prefer President Uhuru Kenyatta. That’s in the DNA of the US politics as status quo is preferable to rocking the boat. From the examples above, it’s clear there’s a disconnect between the promise of democracy and freedom by the US, and any efforts to see it implemented. The wiser counsel is for NASA to cajole, charm and woo these forces if anything, to make them neutral but certainly not to make them a hostile force, given they have plenty on hand to deal with in the Jubilee and UhuRuto power grabbers. Samuel Omwenga is a legal analyst and political commentator in the US