NASA principals Raila Odinga, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang'ula stayed at home after they asked their supporters to boycott the fresh polls. The lot kept their promise that they will not take part in the skewed fresh polls unless IEBC initiates electoral reforms to that guarantee a free, fair, credible, and verifiable poll. They also wanted Al Ghurair stopped from printing ballot papers and the KIEMS kit audited. NASA deputy presidential candidate Kalonzo Musyoka is still away for a trip to Germany. "Clearly, there was a low voter turnout even in the Jubilee strongholds. This now vindicates us that IEBC was being forced into an election," Mudavadi said. Both Raila and Mudavadi spent the day at their Nairobi homes reading and monitoring the developments around the vote. "The legitimacy of this process is completely out of the line," Mudavadi told The Star in an interview on Thursday. Wetang'ula shared lunch with his aging parents in Bungoma as he also closely monitored the developments in the country. "I thank the media for showing the world what transpired on this day that Kenyans refused to take part in a sham election where the winner is predetermined by a computer." The Senator said: "I can tell you confidently that the turnout could not exceed 5 per cent in Bungoma, Vihiga, Busia, and Kakamega." The Opposition termed the elections a total flop and warned President Uhuru Kenyatta against imposing himself on Kenyans. "I call upon Uhuru to get out of the closet and join hands with all of us to put back the country where it belongs by looking at the 2010 Constitution," Wetang'ula said. The fresh poll was staged after the Supreme Court nullified the August 8 presidential elections following illegalities and irregularities. The opposition demanded electoral reforms before a new election is conducted in the country but Jubilee and IEBC remained adamant. This forced NASA to pull out warning that they won’t take part in the elections to endorse a flawed process. "You can wear the crown but be unable to rule the country," Wetang'ula said. The opposition said they won’t be intimidated but will focus on fighting for good leadership. "Thank God we have smartphones. Even if IEBC comes up with fake figures, the world knows that the turnout was very low," Wetang'ula said. Mudavadi said they will remain focused in the fight for the rights of the people and pushing for good leadership. "We cannot endorse a flawed election process by taking part Kenyans want peace, good leadership and value for their taxes," he said. Suna East MP Junet Mohamed said he joined Raila for lunch at his home in Nairobi. "In the morning, he was reading. In the afternoon, he was following the activities of the day. Raila did what he asked NASA leaders to do - stay home." Junet said the turnout was low with Jubilee strongholds at 30 per cent and NASA strongholds less than 5 per cent. "The elections that happened today is a no-confidence vote to Jubilee. They should know that Kenyans are tired of them," the legislator said. NASA said they will call Kenyans together under Article 1 of the Constituency which says the sovereign power belongs to the people. Also read: NASA accuses Chebukati of 'ethnic profiling' after vote pushed in Raila zones  