Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya has told residents to participate in the repeat election on Thursday or stay at home if they do not want to. He said voting is an optional and constitutional right and demonstrations cannot stop one from casting their ballot. "If anyone does not feel like voting or being in the ballot box in next
week’s fresh presidential election, then they should stay back at home," he said during Mashujaa Day celebrations at Kinangi Baraza park. The Governor assured residents that there will be adequate security and they should turn up in large numbers to vote. "All security apparatus will be alert and people will be protected to
make sure they fulfill their constitutional obligation of electing their
leader,” he said. Mvurya asked residents not to participate in NASA's demonstrations "because it will not solve any problems but bring violence". Read: Ngilu tells Kitui residents to boycott election, says IEBC failed Kenyans He said he will serve residents whether or not they voted for him. "What is remaining now except service delivery? There is no Opposition
to any of us who are elected since the people gave us the mandate to
deliver and it’s up to us to do that," he said. Mvurya outlined projects being implemented by the Jubilee administration, saying they are as a result of working closely with the government. "This county had been marginalised by the previous governments but for
the first time since the world was created, we are seeing the first
tarmac road and a host of other developments,” he claimed. Acting county commissioner Mwangi Kahiro said the region is peaceful and calm as a result of good leadership. "Kwale is the envy of many counties in the country. It is a very calm place where
service delivery is going on smoothly. This can only be attributed to
the excellent stewardship of Governor Salim Mvurua who is highly
respected throughout the republic," he said, ODM politicians in the area said they will work towards a cordial relationship with the county administration to serve residents. They included Kinango MP Benjamin Tayari and MCAs James Dawa (Puma), Alfred Bavu (Kinango) and Tsuma Danda (Mackinnon Road). Also read: 'Ignore and resist Raila': Wa Iria woos Mombasa for Thursday election