The DPP has directed Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet to arrest Kandara MP Alice Wahome, who is accused of assaulting an IEBC returning officer. Senior Assistant Director of Public Prosecutions Alloys Kemo also asked police to thoroughly investigate the incident after a video was posted on social media showing the MP quarreling with constituency returning officer Martin Malonza. “Our attention has been drawn to a video circulating on social media, depicting the MP assaulting and obstructing an IEBC official on October 27,” Kemo said in a letter to Boinnet. “Consequently, I’m directed by the Director of Public Prosecutions to advise that you immediately and urgently commence investigations into the incident and cause the said MP to be arrested and charged.” The video shows Wahome and Malonza pushing and pulling. Malonza said the MP confronted him outside the tallying centre when he was about to take the results to Bomas of Kenya, the National Tallying Centre. The video has elicited various reactions from across the political divide. Some NASA supporters have claimed it was an attempt to “rig”. On the other hand, Jubilee supporters have praised the MP for “fighting” for President Uhuru Kenyatta’s votes. The IEBC has also called for the prosecution of the MP for committing an electoral offence and intimidating an official while on duty. The MP claimed Malonza did not give Jubilee Party agents time to verify the results on Forms 34B, despite being requested to give them time to scrutinise them. Wahome said independent presidential candidate Japheth Kaluyu was “irregularly” awarded 440 votes that were supposed to be Uhuru’s at Kiiri polling station. She said Kaluyu had zero votes from the polling station. The MP has said constituency chief agent John Gitau had raised the matter with the returning officer, who said the issue would be dealt with at the end of the exercise. “I also asked Malonza to give us more time to agree on what to do about the wrong entry, but he flatly refused and became loud and uncooperative, without taking due regard of the agent’s request,” Wahome said. She said the video making rounds is not about changing the results in favour of any candidate, but she only wanted to know what was being done to rectify the anomaly. “This is just a disagreement on how to deal with votes stolen from Uhuru. I had given the returning officer enough time and had no reason to fight him,” Wahome said.