The attention of the Attorney General and Department of Justice is drawn to a comment appearing in the Star edition of Monday, October 16, 2017, by James Aggrey Mwamu titled 'AG Githu has let down the public'. While the writer has briefly attempted to describe the mandate of the AG, he somewhat failed to outline how these functions correlate with other government agencies. Whether this is a deliberate attempt to discredit the integrity of the office and the person of the AG or out of ignorance of the complex nature of the office, only time will tell. The Office of the AG is established under Article 156 of the Constitution and the Office of the Attorney General Act No 49 of 2012. Further to this, through Executive Order No 2 of 2013, the former Ministry of Justice, National Cohesion and Constitutional Affairs was merged with the OAG to form the Office of the Attorney General and Department of Justice. As the principal legal adviser of the government, the AG is mandated to promote, protect and uphold the rule of law and defend the public interest. The office advises government ministries, departments, constitutional commissions and state corporations on legislative, the Constitution, international law, human rights, consumer protection and legal aid. The office is also involved in negotiating, drafting, vetting and interpreting local and international documents, agreements and treaties for and on behalf of the government and its agencies. It further coordinates the reporting of obligations to international human rights treaty bodies to which Kenya is a member. The office drafts legislative proposals for the government while representing the national government in all civil and constitutional matters before local, foreign courts and tribunals. As the designated Central Authority on Mutual Legal Assistance, the office is responsible for transmitting and receiving requests for legal assistance in criminal matters on behalf of the government. The OAG and the AG in person are required to perform any function necessary for the effective discharge of the duties and the exercise of the powers vested in law. Perhaps out of ignorance, the writer illustrates that the actions or inaction of the AG have come into sharp focus on various issues that he deems as having nothing to do with public interest. It is imperative to note that public interest of a country cannot be viewed separate from its national interests, either from a security concern or from a socioeconomic perspective. It is these interests, public and/or national, that indeed form the basis for the functions of the AG or any other Cabinet Secretary in government. Government decisions are not arrived at independently, but are collective and take into consideration all public and national interests. It is important to reiterate that governments and regimes are two separate entities. Governments comprise institutions of state and do not change, unlike regimes that change through electoral processes. In relations to the functions or working of the OAG, it is important to emphasise that all government ministries, departments and agencies are required to seek the opinion of the AG on any matter raising substantial legal or constitutional issues. The MDAs must submit all communication and documents relating to the matter on which legal opinion is sought. The request must be as specific and precise as possible to avoid ambiguities. This advisory service is also available to the county governments. The office remains engaged in all government transactions, be they treaties, conventions, agreements, contracts and memoranda of understanding. The office must be involved in the negotiation, drafting, vetting and review of all contracts and other commercial agreements, financing agreements and memoranda of understanding as these give rise to contractual obligations. Such agreements include loan/credit agreements, grant agreements, financing agreements, commercial contracts, subsidiary loan/credit agreements and guarantee agreements, among others. The nature of the office’s involvement is in the assessment of legal mechanisms necessary for project approval and implementation, contract negotiation, legal due diligence, drafting and review of contract compliance under the monitoring and evaluation stages. This is done in line with all the laws of the land and with concurrence with all the critical departments of government such as the National Treasury. Under Article 2 of the Constitution, the general rules of international law and any treaty or convention ratified by Kenya form part of the country's laws. Treaties, conventions, bilateral and other multilateral agreements are international agreements concluded between states in written form and governed by international law. These instruments create rights or obligations for the Republic of Kenya, and it is therefore imperative that before they are signed, appropriate and timely legal advice is sought from the AG. The office renders legal advice, represents the national government in all civil and constitutional matters before local, foreign courts and tribunals, while undertaking arbitration and other alternative dispute resolution mechanisms on behalf of the government. Where a notice of intention to sue the government is served upon the OAG, the AG forwards the notice to the relevant ministry for instructions that should be provided within three working days. The same case applies when a state corporation of agency is sued; however, the agency may request the AG for representation in legal proceedings, utilise in-house counsel or in the alternative engage external counsel. Where government contracts provide for the resolution of disputes by arbitration or other alternative dispute resolution mechanisms, it is expected that all MDAs shall ensure that all arbitration clauses in contracts that they intend to enter into subscribe to the Nairobi Centre for International Arbitration and its rules. It is important that ministries avail and facilitate witnesses as per the requests of the AG. Failure to issue these instructions and/or avail witnesses may compromise the case and cause adverse orders against the government. It must be observed that when adverse orders are issued against government, there is a lot of public outcry that the AG is responsible without realising that the AG cannot act without instructions from the MDAs concerned. The failures of state departments should not be lumped on a single office without appreciating the processes attendant. Finally, the Judicial Service Commission is established under Article 171 of the Constitution with the Chief Justice as the head of the Commission and the Chief Registrar of the Judiciary is the Secretary. The AG is but a member of the JSC. Article 1 of the Constitution vests sovereign power of the country to Parliament and the legislative assemblies in the county governments: to the national executive and the executive structures in the county governments and to the Judiciary and independent tribunals. This therefore establishes the independency of each of the various organs and as such, the OAG and the AG in person cannot be blamed for the actions or inaction of these organs nor for the statements attributed to them. This is a fallacy aimed at discrediting both the office and the person of the AG. It is equally contemptuous and libellous of the writer to assert that government does not respect or honour the advice the OAG gives. Each institution of government as illustrated earlier consults with the OAG as a duty and as a necessity in the defence of both public and national interest. Communications officer, Office of the AG and Department of Justice    