A lot of groundwork has been covered in the latest attempts to have four Kenyans languishing in jail in South Sudan freed, the Foreign Affairs ministry said yesterday. It asked family members to be patient. The ministry dismissed claims that the four — Anthony Mwadime, Ravi Ramesh, Boniface Muriuki and Anthony Keya — had been ignored by the government. Mwadime’s mother told the Star that they do not know the fate of their loved ones and that “things seemed not to be moving. We don’t have information about them. We are just being told they are fine,” she said. The four had left Kenya in search of jobs and were all employees of Click Technologies Ltd, a company registered and owned by John Ogou, a politician and brother-in-law of South Sudan President Salva Kiir. They were arrested in Juba on May 29, 2015, before being held for over 40 days without being interrogated. They were then convicted in June last year of stealing Sh1.4 billion from Kiir’s office. The four were charged with offences relating to financial misappropriation and slapped with 72-year jail sentences. The Court of Appeal in Juba ordered their retrial early this year. Keya’s wife, Esther Osanya, said she has given up. “Tejal has been following up on the matter, but I personally gave up,”Osanya said on the phone. Tejal is Ravi’s sister. Foreign Affairs CS Amina Mohamed assured the families that the matter “is meticulously being addressed”. Yesterday, Mohamed told the Star on the phone that the “matter is still alive”. “I’m working on it. I’ve had meetings with family members,” she said, before referring the Star to Diaspora Affairs director Washington Oloo. Oloo said engagements with the Sudanese authorities and families are ongoing and any other talk may undermine the case. “We regularly have meetings with family members and we have people on the ground seeing them,” he said. Oloo said the charges against the four were grave, but the ministry “has done a lot, the sentence has been revoked, retrial called and sentence reduced to nine years”.  