Boda boda operators in Kisumu have urged Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o not to approve the Finance Bill seeking to have them pay monthly levies. They said the governor should not sign that Bill before meeting them to discuss the matter. The operators said they were not consulted before the Bill was passed. Last week on Thursday, the county assembly passed the Kisumu County Assembly Finance Bill, 2017, which proposed that motorcycle operators be charged Sh500 per month. Their bicycle counterparts will be required to part with Sh200. The cash will be paid to the county government. The rates are to be paid before the 15th of every month, failing which a penalty of 50 per cent of the charge would be imposed on defaulters. Kisumu County Boda Boda Riders’ Co-operative Union chairman Nelson Odire said the assembly ought to have passed Bills that recognise and guide the sector, instead of introducing new levies. “The MCAs say there was public participation, but that did not happen. We were never consulted and that is the reason we are requesting the governor not to sign the Bill before meeting us so that we can agree on certain issues affecting us,” he said on the phone yesterday. Odire said they are not against paying of taxes, but the county government should put in place measures to strengthen the sector. During their discussion in the assembly on Thursday, the MCAs were divided in opinion. Some did not want to be on the wrong side of the operators and they opposed the levies, the others supported the proposals. The main concern of some MCAs was non-inclusion of the operators in the decision and seeking more time for consultations. The others openly said they should be counted out of the decision. Nyalenda A MCA Jacktone Ogendo and Seth Kanga (Market Milimani) said voters will be on their necks should they impose levies on boda boda operators. “The executive will pit the public against us should we impose the levies. We should sit down with them and see how this can be implemented, because there is no alternative employment for our youths. Let’s scrap the levies,” Ogendo said. But nominated MCA Caren Muga proposed Sh50 a week to be paid by the operators. The sitting dragged late into the night to give members adequate time to debate the changes and at the end of it the Bill was passed.