A team led by Ababu Namwamba has accused NASA leader Raila Odinga of instigating violence through the national resistance movement so as to clinch the presidency.  The Council of Professionals of Kenya said the ODM leader should be held criminally liable for the chaos witnessed in various parts of the country last Thursday.  This followed the cancellation of repeat presidential election in Migori, Kisumu, Homa Bay, and Siaya counties. "NRM means the overthrow of constitutional order. When Raila talks of a resistance movement, this means violence which he plans to use to negotiate for power,"  Ababu said during a press briefing at Nairobi's, Hotel Intercontinental on Sunday. "Kenyans will not allow that to happen." More on this: Raila transforms NASA into resistance movement, plans goods boycott Also read: IEBC cancels polls in Nyanza as tally goes on Adding violence has been exported to some areas, which voted peacefully, the Labour Party of Kenya politician called on Kenyans to decline to engage in politically-instigated clashes. Ababu said the former prime minister used violence "to depress voter turnout in various parts of the country and denying a section of Kenyans their right to vote".  "This atrocious assault on the right to vote deliberately sought to reduce voter turnout, delegitimise the election and the entire democratic process," said the former Budalang'i legislator. The politician said the aim of the chaos is to push the country to a constitutional crisis. "Raila should call back his militia and allow the people to vote. If he is convinced his people are not willing to vote, he should withdraw his militia from those regions." Ababu further said President Uhuru Kenyatta's legitimacy will not be challenged since he got majority votes in tyhe October 26 re-rerun. He said: "Legitimacy is a constitutional imperative and can only be challenged within the confines of the constitution. Raila, you have got no business in this game." Read: No election in 90 days, Uhuru legitimacy question non-existent, says Ruto Also read: NASA hired militia to block polls, Ruto tells CNN Former Westlands MP Fred Gumo called on the Luhya community to reject the resistance movement, claiming it is out to sprout violence in the country.  "Luhyas have nothing to do with NRM. Somebody is trying to manipulate Luhyas for self-interests. I am advising our people not to involve themselves in violence because it will destroy our beautiful nation," Gumo said.  