A 90-year-old granny in Witeithie Estate, Juja Constituency has narrated how she has been sexually assaulted by several young men for more than five years. Joyce Wangai said some of the rapists are "young enough to be her great-grandchildren" Wangai said one of the attackers was arrested recently, after neighbours allegedly nabbed him in the act during daytime. “He lifted me from where I was basking in the sun and took me to the house. He raped me several times before I was rescued by neighbours,” she painfully narrated. Gladys Gitungo, a member of a Community Health Workers said the latest incident happened last month. The suspect, who is now in police custody, was in the company of three others who managed to escape. Gitungo said the old woman has endured this pain for a while as the incidences occur almost on a daily basis. “It has been going on for quite a long time. The cases I personally know of are seven,” Gitungo said. The granny's nephew - with whom she once shared a compound - was the first to start raping her. When residents knew about it they attempted to lynch him but was saved by the authorities. His house was demolished and ordered to live elsewhere. “I don’t know where he lives now but he is still a resident of Witeithie even as we speak,” she said. Also read: Man gets 94 years behind bars for raping 94-year-old granny It is alleged that the boys take advantage of ‘cucu’s' inability to scream due to her age and sometimes use their hands to cover her mouth.  The granny has been living alone for more than 40 years after the death of her only son. “They usually break into cucu’s house where she lives alone by drilling a hole through the mud walls and open the door,” explains Nyaguthie. Wangai is currently under medication after she was recently diagnosed with syphilis and gonorrhoea. “It has been very hard for us as she has to be attended to by a doctor twice a week which is expensive. We fear that these boys might end up killing her,” she said. "Cucu can barely remember her relatives. She says that her rural home is in Ndakaini village, Gatanga Constituency at a place called ‘Kwa Njiri wa Karanja’. Unfortunately, she vows never go there due to personal differences with her maternal relatives," Gitungo said. The Health Worker blamed insecurity and high immorality rate on drug and substance abuse among the youths and appealed to authorities to transfer Wangai to a home for the elderly where she can live peacefully.  “The rate of insecurity has skyrocketed with so many muggings and robbery cases being reported. The worst hit are M-PESA traders who report robberies every week,” Nyaguthie said. Read: Murang'a man, 30, beaten to death for raping granny Also read: Police hunt for rapist rape in Embu