The Joint Select Committee on Election Laws Amendments yesterday said it will not be deterred by calls from the foreign envoys to shelve the amendments. National Assembly and Senate co-chairpersons William Cheptumo (Baringo North) and Fatuma Dullo (Isiolo) said they will not stop receiving views from the public and key stakeholders. The two spoke after receiving input from organisations and individuals. They said the diplomats had the right to comment on the matter, but would not stop the committee’s mandate. “That’s their opinion and what they proposed. It won’t stop this committee from proceeding with the mandate before us. The diplomats have a right to say what they have to say because they are our friendly countries,” Cheptumo said. He said the amendments are meant for the prosperity of Kenya and for the benefit of its citizens. Dullo said, “It’s not for this committee to take any statement made outside its proceedings. We have a mandate to deliver.” The duo dismissed claims that the committee is unconstitutionally constituted, saying it was formed in accordance with the Standing Orders. NASA is not represented in the commttee. It has dismissed the plan to amend election laws. Cheptumo said NASA had the opportunity to front their MPs to join the committee but declined. “I want to confirm to the nation that the actions by NASA MPs do not make this committee unconstitutional or illegal in terms of its formation. We are fully legally constituted and have the requisite quorum in line with the Standing Orders,” he said. Dullo appealed to NASA to participate in the public participation process before it ends on Thursday. Africa Electoral Observation Group lead researcher Kenneth Orengo told the committee that the amendments were timely and would avert crisis during the October 26 fresh presidential poll. He said the IEBC should standardise its documents during the election to avoid nullification of results based on human errors. “I agree with the amendment that if there are discrepancies due to human error in the electronic system, the manual method should prevail. It’s the responsibility of the commission to standardise its documents,” Orengo said. He added the four Supreme Court judges did not consider whether noncompliance affected the August 8 presidential election outcome. The committee was tasked to examine the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill 2017 and related bills.