Voter turnout in the presidential rerun in Lamu town was its lowest ever, despite tight security. Voting was orderly and uneventful. NASA had called for a boycott. Polling stations opened by 6am, the first voters turned up at around 7.30am. County elections coordinator Mohamed Adan said voting kicked off around 6am in all the county’s 168 polling stations. In terror-prone Basuba and Kiunga wards, voting materials and staff arrived on time. Residents were able to vote, unlike the situation on August 8, when staff and voting materials arrived a day late. Many voters didn’t cast ballots. Voting materials and election staff were airlifted to the area and other areas within the zone under the Linda Boni Security Operation. “All is well. I’ve toured most of the polling stations,” Adan said. “Even voters in Basuba and Kiunga have been able to cast their votes on time this time round. We have no issues or hitches reported so far.” He said residents are “naturally latecomers”, hence the low turnout. “Those who have voted so far are few, but we know in Lamu that’s how people are. They wake up late. I know in due course, they will come and vote,” Adan said. He urged voters to come out in large numbers and expressed confidence turnout would pick up. The security of voters and IEBC staff had been guaranteed, Adan added. County commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo sought to reassure voters of their security, saying tough measures were in place. On Wednesday, Kitiyo banned anti-election protests in Lamu. No protests or security breaches were reported in the county yesterday. Residents have lived in fear in the past because of attacks, which the government blames on al Shabaab militants and sympathisers. Al Shabaab attacks had greatly undermined tourism and development in the county. The government formed a multiagency security team to carry out operation and flush out Shabaab militants, especially from hideouts within Boni Forest. On Monday, KDF soldiers reportedly killed four Shabaab militants and said the death toll would rise. Last Friday, during the Mashujaa Day celebrations, residents thanked the soldiers for putting their lives on the line to secure them. They recalled in sadness that because of their safety, many women had become widows and children turned into orphans.