Chimpanzees, leopards and giraffes are among 33 endangered species set to receive special protection after a UN-backed wildlife conference endorsed additional protection last week in Manila, the Philippines. During the six-day Convention of Migratory Species Conference that ended on Saturday, world leaders demanded more protection for species that cross country borders. Governments also agreed to cooperate to reduce the negative impact of marine debris, noise pollution, renewable energy and climate change on migratory species. These include actions on Africa’s great carnivores, 10 species of vultures, and the endangered whale shark. The 12th Session of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animals took place from October 23-28 under the theme ‘Their Future is Our Future – Sustainable Development for Wildlife and People’. The week-long conference involved decisions on 34 species being submitted by 24 parties from Asia, Africa, the Americas, Europe and Oceania. Thirty-three proposals to amend the species appendices accepted, while one was withdrawn. Three species of shark and three species of ray fish will receive greater protection. Others set to benefit are dusky shark, the blue shark, the common guitarfish and the white-spotted wedge fish. For the first time, the giraffe will receive protection under an international treaty. Although their populations in many Southern African countries are thriving, they are in overall decline across Africa, with less than 90,000 animals remaining in the wild. Convention of Migratory Species executive secretary Bradnee Chambers said, “The Conference in Manila has been a real game changer for the convention. Intensive weeks of negotiations have resulted in a stronger commitment by countries to step up their efforts to conserve the planet’s migratory wildlife. Thanks to the collective efforts of all, the convention now has a compliance review mechanism and has adopted species that test the boundaries of international wildlife conservation”.      