The EU Observer Mission has lauded IEBC for adhering to most of the 18 recommendations it outlined for the October 26 repeat presidential election. In a statement on Monday, EOM said the electoral body has made positive steps in implementing nine recommendations related to election administration. "If implemented as planned, these provide a foundation for an improved technical process, with stronger transparency and integrity measures." But it noted that contenders in the presidential election have not reduced or ended attacks on the IEBC, judiciary and civil society. "Political aggravation has resulted in a stand-off, with violent confrontations between groups of demonstrators and state security forces," the mission said. It said the controversial Election Bill passed by Jubilee MPs and awaiting President Uhuru Kenyatta's assent has furthered divisions. More on this: Election law changes noble, Duale says, asks Kenyans to read Bill "The amendments are not required under the Supreme Court’s September 1 ruling, and their timing is not consistent with good practice for electoral law reform," the mission said. The EOM noted that the election boycott by the Opposition means supporters could obstruct voting and tallying. It asked government and Opposition leaders to respect independent institutions. “Dialogue and cooperation are urgently needed for compromise so that
there can be a peaceful electoral process with integrity and
transparency and Kenyans can choose their president.” The Election Bill seeks to amend the IEBC Act,
the Election Act and the Elections Offences Act by giving manually
transmitted results more clout than the electronically transmitted ones. If passed, results of the next presidential election will be determined by what is transmitted manually. It states
that where there is a discrepancy between the electronically
transmitted and manually transmitted results, the manually transmitted
shall prevail The Bill also seeks to remove ambiguities in
the law regarding the transmission of results to ensure that there's no
room for misinterpretation. It further  aims to clear questions
regarding what a repeat presidential election entails - as may be
ordered by the Supreme Court The Bill is also explicit regarding what happens when, a
presidential candidate in a ‘two-horse’ repeat election, withdraws their
quest.  