Coast Jubilee leaders have promised to give President Uhuru 700,000 votes in the October 26 repeat presidential election. The leaders, led by Tourism CS Najib Balala, said it is time Coast reaps the benefits of being in government. "Mombasa and Coast at large have changed. They are now Jubilee zones," said Balala. He spoke at Serani grounds during Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto's tour on Monday. More on campaigns: Quit race if disinterested, Kenyans tired of suspense, Uhuru tells Raila Also read: Not all Israelites reached Canaan, Raila says after 500 join Jubilee Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya and former woman representative Zainab Chidzuga said they will push Uhuru's votes in Kwale to 150,000. "We will shave them with a rusty razor blade," said Chidzuga. In the August 8 polls, Uhuru got less than 43,812 votes against Raila's 138,664 votes. Mvurya said demands by NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga before the repeat presidential elections show he is a dictator. He and Chidzuga said the Opposition chief cannot be trusted with Kenya's leadership and that he is taking actions that show he has sensed defeat. Lamu Senator Anwar Oloitiptip said Uhuru belongs to State House because he was born there. He likened Raila to a cockroach saying no matter how many they are, they will never pull down a cupboard. "Mende haangushi kabati (A cockroach cannot cause a cupboard to fall)," said Oloitiptip. He said the secret is to move door-to-door to seek votes so Raila is sent back to Bondo. Former Taita Taveta woman representative Joyce Lay said the Opposition has no agenda for the Coast. She cited the lack of a principal, MP and Senator from Coast. "Wake up, Coast. Only Uhuru loves you," said Lay. Buda MP Ali Wario amused the crowd when he said he is pregnant and will give birth to twins on October 26. He added Raila's trip to the UK will not help win the presidential poll. Mombasa Jubilee point man Suleiman Shahbal, who vied for governor, said Jubilee is slowly but steadily making inroads in the county. He said former Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar's defection to Jubilee is a sure sign of a growing Jubilee Party. Former Likoni MP Suleiman Shakombo of Wiper and Hassan Domoko of ODM also attended the rally. Read; [VIDEO] Shahbal promises Uhuru 'every Coast vote', says poll will be tsunami Also read: I don't want to be Coast kingpin, give me votes for Uhuru - CS Kazungu