“America
has no permanent friends or enemies, only interests”, Henry Kissinger, who served as the US Secretary of State and
National Security Adviser under the administrations of Richard Nixon and Gerald
Ford, famously said. In the 1970s, he also
said, “I don't see why we need to stand by and
watch a country go communist due to the irresponsibility of its own people.”  On Monday, Western diplomats warned
President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga and their allies against undermining
the IEBC’s ability to conduct the October 26 presidential repeat election. In an unusually blunt statement read by
US Ambassador Robert Godec, 14 envoys — including from the UK and EU delegation
— accused the two of not demonstrating the required leadership ahead of the
polls. The envoys, who spoke after meeting the
IEBC commissioners at the Bomas of Kenya, threatened tough restrictions,
including travel bans on politicians derailing the election. “We are watching the politicians
carefully, and we are going to take appropriate action,” UK deputy High
Commissioner to Kenya Susie Kitchens said. Godec, asked Jubilee to drop the poll
law changes, saying their enactment would cripple efforts to conduct a free,
fair and credible poll within the limited time, the Star reported. He also
warned NASA leaders against making tough demands and hurling inflammatory
remarks, urging them to explore constitutional mechanisms in pushing their
agenda of removing IEBC CEO Ezra Chiloba and other officials. Both sides told
off the envoys. But this is not the first time the US
and other Western envoys are making such stern remarks. In the run up to the 2013 General
Election, Assistant Secretary of State Johnnie Carson said the polls
represented a “wonderful opportunity demonstrate to the world the vitality of
Kenya's democracy.” "Choices have consequences,"
Carson said. "We live in an interconnected world and people should be
thoughtful about the impact that their choices have on their nation, on the
region, on the economy, on the society and on the world in which they live.
Choices have consequences.” Uhuru Kenyatta and his then running
mate William Ruto had been accused of crimes against humanity at the ICC in
relation to the 2007-08 post-election violence, in which over 1,000 people were
killed and more than 300,000 people were displaced. On Monday September 18, the Nation
reported that a top official in President Donald Trump’s administration said
“all eyes were on Kenya” as the IEBC invited President Uhuru and Raila to a
make-or-break meeting over the election. “Kenya’s on — probably on — the
threshold of a great election on October 17, but it’s the issues that we need
to focus on and work with ... the eyes of the world and the US government are
on you, on Kenya,” Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary at the US government’s
Bureau of African Affairs Donald Yamamoto said. The fact is that in diplomacy, states have
interests, as Kissinger said. The US and the UK in particular have key
interests in this country, mainly economic and security, given its strategic
location and the Britain-Kenya history. In fact, Yamamoto put it very clear
saying, “We’re not going to take our eyes away from it (Kenya). Kenya matters.
If our largest embassy is in Nairobi, that means we have a stake in that country,
and Africa has a stake, and this government’s looking at where the trend lines
will go after October 17 [then the initial presidential election date].” And with their economic, political and
foreign aid influence, it matters not what President Uhuru or Siaya Senator
James Orengo says, when the “international community speaks”, the rest sit down
and listen. That is what brokered the 2007-08 electoral dispute.