AFC Leopards ended their hoodoo over Kariobangi Sharks in the most important of occasions as they claimed a 2-0 win to lift the GOtv Shield at Kasarani yesterday. Man mountain of the match Salim Abdalla powered in the header with just 18 minutes on the clock before Vincent Oburu punished Jeff Oyemba, rifling in the killer second goal as Leopards gave arguably their best performance of the season. The victory added another gloss to coach Robert Matano’s CV, leaving no doubt that he still has the midas touch despite his recent health issues. Ingwe will now represent the country in the Caf Confederation Cup. Abdalla powered in the opener from Duncan Otieno’s corner as Leopards early dominance paid dividends. Ingwe needed to ensure Sharks did not get into any kind of rhythm and Victor Majid and Musa Mudde ensured just that. Ingwe continued to look the more dangerous side even after the opener with Vincent Oburu’s goal-bound shot blocked by Pascal Ogweno. Sharks were struggling to cope with Ingwe’s take no prisoner approach to the game. It was a good tactic for Leopards, who had failed to beat Sharks in their two meetings in the league, losing once and drawing the other. The clash had to be stopped briefly for Gabriel Andika to be treated after he had come off the worse in his collision with Masoud. Ingwe took the lead into the break and deservedly so. The quality of the match took a hit when the heavens opened up as passes started to go haywire and the ground became slippery much to the frustrations of Sharks. Leopards were definitely benefiting from the disjointed nature of the game. Sharks resorted to long range efforts with Masoud attempting from near the half-way line as the Sh2 million winners purse continued to get tantalisingly closer. The final 15 minutes left Sharks with no option but to go all out in search for the equaliser. That left them vulnerable to the counter with Jeffery Oyiemba coming to their rescue. Francis Manoah was introduced for the final minutes as Sharks grew desperate with each passing minute. The next goal was always going to be crucial and it was Leopards who got it to kill the game off as Aziz Okaka fired in a speculative shot, which Oyemba saw late amidst the forest of legs and spilled it onto Oburu’s path. The young striker gleefully took the gift firing in the winner and with he became the tournament’s top scorer with six goals. Eleven minutes were added after regular time but Leopards could not let go off their hard work and defied Sharks to the final whistle.