Shortly after the August 8 election, former Prime Minister and aggrieved presidential hopeful Raila Odinga visited Kibra to address his supporters. Siaya Senator James Orengo urged NASA supporters to avoid Nation Media Group products for being partisan. Ironically, NTV was the only television station that aired the rally live, something Raila needed for his voice to reverberate across the country. One would expect this to be a foundation for a potentially adversarial rivalry between NASA and NMG. More than a month later, during a Sunday night prime time interview with the Inspector General of Police, Joseph Boinnet, NTV’s Linus Kaikai gave the police chief the hardest time. He grilled him with questions that were sure to warm the hearts of NASA and enrage Jubilee. It was a clear political advantage for NASA. The NMG is a profit-driven company, at least for the most part, as is the case with most media houses. Considering the massive following Raila commands, his sentiments are sure to have taken some toll on NMG’s reputation, and, subsequently, marketability. So, what happened there? The NMG, being a business and having credibility and accountability as its main selling points, focussed on the big picture. This is give Kenyans, or the customers if you please, what they want - the truth – a good business strategy that works for everyone. Anyone who watched the Boinnet interview will agree, even if implicitly, to one fact; the police are impervious to the law. The blatantly shameless denials by Boinnet in the face of damning evidence against the police ought to have angered any viewer. There is something much greater than every one of us, and that is achieving a democracy that actually works in real life and not just on paper. I cannot possibly be more proud of how far we have come in codifying our laws. The problem is, how can our laws be adhered to by everyone when hegemons run the police and army? I understand that Kenya is seemingly irretrievably tribal, and, thus, people whose ethnic community is currently well represented in government feel obligated to consent to every step taken, be it lawful or otherwise. It is this segment of society that is mostly at fault, because it is mainly up to them where we head as a nation. They are the only ones who can easily take down their greedy tribesmen and put an end to the use of tribe as a brainwashing mechanism to maintain power. The part of the country’s population that is pro-government cheers on the police as they neutralise every demonstration held by citizens who don’t want to conform to a forced leadership, even when the officers undoubtedly breach their code of conduct. Nothing good can ever come out of such a situation. Acceptable injustice only leads to more acceptable injustices, and things will definitely go against the spirit of a country. One thing all leaders seem to agree on is that Kenya is one nation under God, and no one is going anywhere, because there is no other place we can call home. What, then, do those who support atrocities against opposing tribes expect as the outcome in a nation that gets divided with every passing day? If we go on like this, the result is nothing short of a sure thing; Kenya will no longer be Kenya, but a failed state in turmoil. I understand what most Kenyans fear. We fear not being represented in government and consequently being more of second-class citizens, but, have we learnt nothing? It’s been seven years since the rebirth of our nation in the form of a new Constitution, which brought with it, among other goodies, devolution. If indeed it’s difficult to break out of our tribal ideals, why not put more emphasis on making devolution work for us? Most counties are mostly homogeneous in terms of tribal affiliation. Your MCA and governor can actually do more for you than your MP and President, if the Constitution is anything to go by, and it is. Let’s make our county governments work because that is easier. Afterwards we’ll realise that we are happier, and national matters will then be handled from a more open-minded perspective. Right now we’re all just too blinded to tell right from wrong. Let’s take that step back and reevaluate our actions and omissions.