The National Police Service is violating the constitutional rights and freedoms of Kenyans by imposing illegal criminal responsibility for any violation by demonstrators. It is illegal to impose criminal liability on protest organisers.  This demonstrates the might of the state and is an assault on basic democratic values enshrined in the Constitution. Biased security institutions create an atmosphere of heightened tension and lose their credibility. It is disturbing that the police, despite Kenyans fighting gallantly to secure their constitutional functional and institutional autonomy, remains the Executive’s instrument of social and political repression. Its functional autonomy has been curtailed by both the political and bureaucratic arms of the Executive. It is politically biased, violating Articles 238 and 239. When security services and other state actors who are supposed to act independently and impartially are thought to be taking sides, it creates spite and rancour. This is what happened in the 2007 General Election with serious ramifications. The police have no authority to impose criminal responsibility as a condition for notifying them of demos. This amounts to violating freedom to protest. TRhe courts have ruled many times that the responsibility for ensuring public order at demonstrations rests exclusively with the police. They cannot transfer this responsibility to protesters. The organisers cannot guarantee that all participants will obey the law. The police convey a message that anyone who dares to exercise their right to protest is being targeted. This is instilling fear. This condition is not permitted. The organisers have no practical way of guaranteeing the behaviour of all participants in a demonstration. It is the police’s role to assist the organisers of demos to exercise their rights and not put unnecessary obstacles in their way. The presidency, in an unconstitutional step in May 2016, placed the National Intelligence Service under its control. This NIS has been accused of political bias, unprofessionalism and unconstitutional acts. The right to protest is a fundamental right of speech and assembly. It is the state’s obligation to make the exercise of this right effective. The freedoms and rights that Kenyans enjoy, and which are enshrined in the Constitution, are products of street demonstrations. Recent experiences have shown that President Uhuru Kenyatta’s administration encourages the use of police force to render weak and otiose the exercise of such rights. Freedom of speech and the right to assemble and demonstrate by holding street protests and peaceful agitation are the basic features of a democratic system. The people of a democratic country have a right to raise their voice against the decisions and actions of the government. They have a right to express their resentment over the actions of the government and or its agencies, or on any subject of social or national importance. The government has to respect, and in fact encourage, exercise of such rights. It is the state’s duty to aid the exercise of freedom of speech as understood in its comprehensive sense. The state is not to throttle or frustrate exercise of such rights by using its executive or legislative powers to pass orders or take action in that direction in the name of reasonable restrictions. Freedom of speech and expression (protest is a form of expression) is the bulwark of democratic governance. It is essential for proper functioning of democracy. Freedom of speech and expression is regarded as the first condition of liberty. It occupies a preferred position in the hierarchy of liberties, giving succour and protection to all other liberties. It has been truly said that it is the mother of all other liberties. It plays a crucial role in the formation of public opinion on social, political and economic matters. It has been described as a ‘basic human right’, and ‘a natural right’. There exists a constitutional scheme and the historical background of the relevant Articles relating to freedom of speech and expression in Kenya. The framers of the Constitution, in unambiguous terms, granted the right to freedom of speech and expression and the right to assemble peaceably and without arms. This gave Kenyans a very valuable right, which is the essence of any democratic system. There could be no expression without these rights. Liberty of thought enables liberty of expression. Ndung'u is the executive director, International Center for Policy and Conflict