Experts from Germany are in the country to impart knowledge on best water management practices. Kenyan water experts will gain knowledge on the latest technology and management trends.  This comes even as reports indicate 16 million Kenyans do not have adequate sanitation. Water CS Eugene Wamalwa yesterday said the country is keen to borrow state-of-the-art technology to improve water coverage. “Access to water is in the Constitution, but the sector is mainly funded by development partners, resources still remain a big challenge,” he said.  According to the UN, Kenya is classified as chronically water-scarce. It has one of the lowest natural water replenishment rates, at 647 metres cubed per capita per annum, far below the 1,000 metres cubed per capita per annum. Wamalwa said with enhanced corporation with Germany on expertise, water coverage and sanitation in the country will improve. “Kenya is attracting more investors through public-private partnership,” he said. The CS spoke at the Kenya Water Institute in South C, Nairobi, during the second Kenya-Germany Water and Waste Week. In Germany, citizens have drinking water available in excellent quality and sufficient quantity. Wastewater treatment is also at a very high level with almost 100 per cent treated to the highest EU purification standards. The Water Week comes at a time when the country is faced with serious water shortage, especially in arid and semi-arid areas. Wamalwa said destruction of water infrastructure has contributed to the shortage. In Kenya, 51 per cent of all rural residents do not have clean water. According to 2013-14 review of Kenya water services sector by the Water Services Regulatory Board, Sh176 billion will be required by 2030 for 100 per cent water coverage. Estimates of water supply in the country indicate only about 56 per cent of the population has access to safe water.  Approximately 80 per cent of patients go to hospital over preventable diseases. About 50 per cent of these illnesses are water, sanitation and hygiene-related. The report showed the investments in urban water and sanitation amounted to Sh12 billion in 2013-14. This is in comparison to an investment need of around Sh75 billion annually – Sh33 billion for water and Sh42 billion for sanitation. Country director for the delegation of German industry and commerce Maren Diale-Schellschmidt said the workshop will focus on various topics.