The high-profile defections from NASA to Jubilee ahead of the repeat presidential election failed to improve President Uhuru Kenyatta’s performance in the Western Kenya. Uhuru got 166,447 votes from the four Western counties of Bungoma, Kakamega, Busia and Vihiga, down from the 242,388 votes he garnered in the August 8 election. He received 37,502 votes in Kakamega county, down from 63,399 in August and 22,623 votes in Busia, down from 34,239 in August.  Uhuru garnered 9,847 votes in Vihiga from 18,275 in August. He got 96,415 in Bungoma, down from 126,475 in August. This represents a 31.3 per cent drop. Among politicians who joined the Jubilee wagon include former National Assembly Speaker Kenneth Marende, former Vihiga Governor Moses Akaranga and former Vihiga MP Yusuf Chanzu in Vihiga county. Others are UDP presidential candidate Cyrus Jirongo in Kakamega county, former Funyula MP Paul Otuoma in Busia county and former Kanduyi MP and Bungoma ODM governor candidate for the August polls Alfred Khang’ati in Bungoma county. This in essence means that the defectors moved to Jubilee as individuals and the perception created by their defections that NASA was losing and Jubilee gaining ground in the region was a farce. Akaranga said during Jubilee campaigns that Vihiga had shifted and will deliver a 100 per cent votes to Uhuru. Marked ballot papers were found in in Vihiga on Saturday, 48 hours after voting closed. Political analyst Martin Oloo said the defectors simply did not have the followers they purported to have when they defected to Jubilee. “It was primitive for the defectors to imagine that they were moving with the people in their pockets to Jubilee,” he said. Oloo continued, “People vote for you because of what you are and you lose their backing immediately you shift allegiance.”  Political commentator Martin Andati said the defectors moved to Jubilee out of bitterness and without any political value. “What is coming out clearly is that the numbers given to Uhuru Kenyatta in August from the region were cooked. The truth is ultimately coming out,” he said. Andati said the repeat polls outcome leaves Deputy President William Ruto, who has boasted about taking over Western, in a dilemma in his bid for President in 2022.            