Nasa  leader  Raila Odinga yesterday led a ‘no-election’ campaign to Kitui town.  He said participating in tomorrow’s rerun would be a mockery because  NASA’s ‘irreducible-minimum’ demands were not met by the IEBC. “That’s why we’ve  resolved there will be no election on October 26. It’ll be a wedding for [President] Uhuru [Kenyatta] and [DP William] Ruto. We can’t allow ourselves to be reduced to flower girls. We had to say no,” he told the excited and cheering crowd at the Kitui bus terminus. Raila and co-principals Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula were hosted by Governor  Charity  Ngilu. In their company were Mombasa Governor  Hassan Joho,  Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua, former Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama  and MPs Makali Mulu, Mohamed Junet and Gedion Mulyungi. They also spoke to residents. Several ward representatives from the county were also present. They made a  “no election in Kitui on October 26 declaration.” Raila said IEBC  chairman  Wafula Chebukati and former commissioner Roselyn Akombe made it clear the IEBC  cannot guarantee  a free, fair and credible election. He said four commissioners enforce State House directives at the IEBC. He said NASA IT experts used logs provided  by the IEBC to establish that he had beaten Uhuru at the August  8 polls. Raila said he was, however,  robbed  of victory by “crafty IEBC officials”. “The IT experts established that I had 8.5 million votes against Uhuru’s 7.2 million.” He appealed to Kitui residents to ignore the rerun. Raila said the IEBC and Jubilee have delayed NASA’s plans to transform key sectors of the economy. “We had promised that once we take the reigns of leadership, we would from last September offer free education from nursery to secondary schools,” he said. “We said the elderly would get social welfare payouts. We promised to set up an industrial park in Kitui for the youth.” Wetang’ula told residents to stop people from going out to vote. He said the rerun will not happen in his Western backyard because traitors will be dealt with ‘mundu khu mundu’ (man to man).