The tourism industry has been among the worst performing sectors of the economy due to the prolonged electioneering period. Tourism Cabinet Secretary Najib Balala yesterday said the growth of tourist arrivals was at 10 per cent for the seven months to August despite it being the peak season. “There are really no growth projections for now as we first want to stabilize the numbers,” Balala said. “Political noise in the country is not helping the industry right now.” Data by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics shows that visitors into Kenya increased by 10.7 per cent in the five months to May to 358,985 compared to 324,276 last year. The Kenya Tourism Board attributed the growth to increased meetings , incentives, conference and exhibitions. At the time, Balala said the the growth signaled continued recovery of the tourism industry, projecting a 20 per cent rise in tourist numbers by the end of the year. “We have recovered almost 18 per cent since 2015 and we believe our projection is going to be higher this year. We expect a 20 per cent rise in arrivals by the end of 2017,” Balala said in May. The sector has however been met with blockades with Kenya stripped of the opportunity to host the UNAIDS Global Prevention Coalition meeting that was set to take place in Nairobi on October 10-11 which would largely boost the country’s MICE activities. State House spokesperson Manoah Esipisu said the decision had been informed by the country’s current political uncertainty. This is barely weeks after Kenya lost rights to host the 2018 African National Championship by the Confederation of African Football due to “Kenya’s slow pace in preparing for the tournament.” Other industry players have also emerged pointing out the adverse effects the current political environment has had on the sector. Jumia Travel country manager Cyrus Onyiego told the Star the number of bookings on the online platform went down by 30 per cent during the election month and had since registered a flat growth. A representative at Sarova Hotels added the current business environment was unfavourable especially for its city hotels. The Kenya Tourism Board yesterday launched the Magical Kenya Tourism Expo aimed at boosting tourist numbers by showcasing Kenya to international market. KTB has been working on a MICE strategy aimed at increasing conferences and meetings in the country.