The President has asked Parliament to enact laws that will ensure full compliance with the law on Access to Government Procurement Opportunities. Uhuru Kenyatta said Parliament should create legislation that will enable audit of the two levels of governments to ensure the AGPO law is adhered to. "You should ensure the national government, parastatals and the 47 county governments abide by the law that requires 30 per cent of all government tenders and contracts allocated to women, youths and people living with disabilities." He spoke at State House in Nairobi on Friday, during a meeting with persons living with disabilities, that Deputy President William Ruto also attended. The President assured Jubilee administration's commitment to equity and inclusivity, saying the entrenchment of the AGPO law is a step towards empowering the three groups of people. "Since coming to office, we have worked tirelessly to ensure an inclusive and equitable society where no Kenyan is left behind. This, I said, should be the corner stone of the Jubilee government." The Head of State encouraged persons with disabilities to express their interests freely. He noted Jubilee has been in the forefront of supporting their welfare and fully backed those who sought elective posts. "You should now become vocal in expressing your needs and demanding your rights. We want to hear your voice coming out strongly, making sure you are not left behind." He cited Kajiado woman representative Janet Teiyaa who was a Nominated Senator in the 11th Parliament. "You now have good representation in Parliament. You have a minimum of four people who are doing a good job," Uhuru said. "SOCIETY JUDGED BY TREATMENT OF THE WEAK" Ruto said Jubilee has been keen on serving all Kenyans without discrimination and will not waver in its plan to improve the lives of persons with disabilities. "We are told that society and leadership is not judged by how they treat the mighty and able but by how they treat the weak and the vulnerable." The DP said leaders must ensure persons with disabilities are catered for by implementing policies formulated to address their needs. Senate majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen and National Assembly's Aden Duale said Kenyans spoke against demonstrations by the Opposition. They said the country cannot be held at ransom by one individual [NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga] using all means to acquire power through the back door. "How can a leader incite people to violence so as to ascend to power? In all democracies people are allowed to picket and hold demonstrations at particular places set aside for such activities," said the Elgeyo Marakwet Senator. Teiyaa, Nominated Senator Isaac Mwaura and his counterpart at the National Assembly David Sankok said street demonstrations do not augur well PWLDS. "These demonstrations are not good for us. It is unfortunate that those in the Opposition don't care about us. We have blind people and those with other disabilities who cannot run to save their lives when chaos erupt," Teiyaa said. She thanked the President for his support for special groups. Sankok said through Jubilee's policy, persons with disabilities have access to tenders and contracts worth Sh4 billion. He said they have resolved to vote in large numbers for Uhuru on October 26.