For over twenty-something years, Yvonne Chaka Chaka has maintained her significance in the music industry. It is her melodious tunes “I’m Burning Up”, “Thank You Mister DJ”, “I Cry for Freedom”, “Makoti”, “Motherland” and “Umqombothi” that helped rocket Chaka Chaka to stardom. Using her fiery vocals, she managed to keep Africa, as well as the entire world, entertained and satisfied. Through music, she launched herself from complete obscurity to the heights of cultural and commercial excellence. She was able to expose the South African sound and ways of life to the world. With breathtaking conviction, she offered the world a sound and style that marked her creations. Now she returns with a project expected to keep the fire burning. “Keep Looking at Me” is the latest release from the artiste, who’s enjoyed over 10 full-length releases already. Crafted under careful eyes, the 10-track album is a deep dive into the contemporary sound: a crossover between pop and R&B. Yvonne taps both established and upcoming young artistes, probably with the aim of reaching the younger market. Tanzanian artiste Ali Kiba offers his vocals on the “Akilia Mama,” a track that revisits the Umqombothi era and appreciates women. Yvonne also features South African singer Berita on the track “Jewel of Africa” and Ntsiki Mazwai on “You and I Matter”.   Dollar & Sunshine Centre Choir join Yvonne on the catchy acoustic track “Kulila”. Other tracks you should listen to on the LP include “Happy People”, “Letter to Grandma”, “Dance Some More” and “Thank You - Zinkomo”. The 46-minute-long effort is dense in ideas and sound that draw from the artiste’s past with the aim of maintaining this significance in future. At its core, “Keep Looking at Me” is an album that understands just how to keep the essentials that make Yvonne’s sound.  This project, most certainly, would not be considered her best release ever, and, therefore, we might not expect it to make much impact on the charts. Her vocals are not as strong as they used to be and, despite meticulous guidance, the tracks don’t really entice. However, it is a good thing to hear something new from the living legend.   Star Rating:   3.5/5