Dandora, one of the areas classified as a violence hotspot, remained peaceful yesterday as voters participated in the repeat election. Despite a low voter turnout in most polling stations in the area, there were no major incidences apart from protesting youths who were dispersed by police in Dandora Phase IV. Carrying twigs and stones, the youths sang praise songs for NASA leader Raila Odinga but castigated President Uhuru Kenyatta. Long queues were witnessed in Dandora 1 Primary School, Dandora Secondary School and in James Gichuru Primary School. It was, however, different at Ronald Ngala Primary where only 100 people had turned up by 11 am. Lead presiding officer for the centre Paul Nyongesa said the average voter turnout was 35 per cent in the 20 polling stations. “There are 14,000 registered in this centre but so far, no polling station has seen a turnout of more than 50 per cent,” Nyongesa said. Nyongesa said they had experienced no hitches like in the August 8 election when some voters could not be identified by BVR kits. Unlike in the August 8 election, there were no agents for all the other presidential candidates, except President Uhuru Kenyatta. Dandora was among 10 areas security officials suspected could explode in political violence during and after the elections. Other hotspots included Ziwani, Landhies Road, Globe, Makadara, Mowlem Savanah, Mukuru, Sinai, Umoja and all slums.  ”These areas have big populations and we shall deploy extra officers. The threat level in these areas is higher,” Nairobi police commander Japheth Koome said. Embakasi North MP James Gakuya cast his vote at Dandora I Primary School. He lauded police for ensuring peace prevailed. Gakuya was also happy with the turn out, adding that five vehicles were on standby to ferry voters to the polling stations. “We want to finish this work by 2pm. We cannot be in a perpetual state of politicking,” Gakuya said. Voting also went on smoothly in Embakasi Central and Embakasi South constituencies. At Kayole 1 Primary in Embakasi Central, voting started a few minutes past 7am. “I am voting because it is my right to do so. I’ve not been forced or moved by anybody,” Kayole voter Maxwell Babu said.  In Ruaraka, chaos were witnessed in Luckysummer where violent youths clashed with police after they blocked voting materials from reaching polling stations. Police evetually cleared the barricades, but people kept away from polling stations even after voting opened in some centers. In Kibera, youths woke up early and blocked the gate to Olympic Primary school until police moved in to clear the roads. 