Kenya Railways has warned against forced deals following claims SGR Phase II contractors are tricking residents into signing agreements. Despite a court order halting construction, the contractors have carried on with work. Read: SGR phase 2 works on, despite stop order Residents claim they are being bought off, threatened or coerced if they interject while others are being tricked into entering secret "early entry" deals. On September 30, The Star found China Communications Construction Company on site and visited Emakoko, Tuala, Rangau, Kambi Ya Moto, Kandisi and Rimpa areas. Workers there said the contractors are aware of the court order but declined to comment further and referred The Star to Kenya Railways. Area officials, residents and property owners claimed the contractor is forcing and duping some of them into allowing work on their land despite the court order and without official evaluation and resettlement plans. "What we are starring at is forceful eviction. The project's proponents want to evade legal land acquisition procedures and dodge proper recognised and acceptable compensation and resettlement processes," said a resident who sought anonymity. "This why they are trying to skirt around the issues." Another said: "The Chinese and Kenya Railway officials visit our land accompanied by police and start erecting beacons. When you ask why they are doing so you are threatened with dire consequences." But Kenya Railways managing director Atanas Maina said he is not aware of these events. "I am not aware. No one should be coerced or threatened into signing anything until the National Lands Commission does land evaluation for official land acquisition to commence," he said. He added the Relocation Action Plan awaits statutory approval before gazettement. RESIDENTS SAYS COURT ORDER WILL BE VACATED The Star is in possession of draft sample agreements, for contractors and property owners, titled 'Construction Early Entry'. Others who spoke to The Star claimed they have been approached individually forced to sign the deals and then warned against involving lawyers.  The agreement allows the contractor to continue constructing in exchange of between Sh30,000 and Sh100,000.  The value of the land is between Sh1 million and Sh2million for an eighth of an acre. The Star is also in possession of a four-hour recording of a meeting of residents, a Chinese official known only as Frank, a professor Robinson Ngugi said to be from government, area assistant district commissioner and the Emakoko assistant chief at Berbers Restaurant. The meeting took place at the establishment is located next to Olekasasi police station on September 14. In the recording, residents are asked "to accept early entry to avoid keeping the contractors idle". "We are not opposed to the railway but to these underhand maneuvers, threats and deceit aimed at breaking the law and depriving us of our property," a resident said. Locals claimed resident Killy Pasha, who is community liaison officer for the contractor, is being used to intimidate and threaten them into agreeing to the deals.   He denied the claims saying: "Individuals who feel comfortable are signing the agreement to allow the construction to go but none is harassed." "We know the court order will be vacated. That is why we trying to help each other so individuals benefit," he added when asked about the court order. Ngugi said he would respond later did not answer calls while the contractor was unavailable for comment. The  Sh63 billion project will run from Nairobi South railway station through Nairobi National Park and Ngong to Naivasha Industrial Park in Enosupukia.        