IAAF World under 18 800m silver medalist Lydia Jeruto has set her sights on the 6km title at the Baringo Half Marathon slated for November 4 in Kabarnet. Jeruto, who timed 2:02.06 to finish behind compatriot Jackline Wambui (2:01.46) at the U18 championships held at Kasarani in July will be using the race as build up ahead of next year’s IAAF World U20 Championships in Finland. “Shedding of seconds is my priority as I train. Medals will follow through. And to improve my time ahead of the Finland Championships, I will be competing in various cross country series,” said the former student of St. Agatha Mukwo Girls, Elgeyo Marakwet. “The 10km and 21km races are done on tarmac and because I am still young and yet to gather much experience, I have to start on grass,” she intimated. Cleophas Maiyan, another 2017 IAAF 2,000m steeplechase boys silver medalist will be participating in the same race (6km) as a springboard to the U20 Championships. “I have had a good training regime after the World U18 and I hope to post good timings in the 6km races. I expect tough and healthy competition but my paramount mission is to give myself that push to post good time that I can build on in my career path,” said Maiyan. The 2017 event will be the 15th edition of the Lotto Baringo half marathon whose ambassadors are National Olympic Committee of Kenya president Paul Tergat and three-time London Marathon holder Mary Keitany. Meanwhile, Athletics Kenya president Jackson Tuwei warned cheats that they do not have a place in this event. “Our athletes have over the years worked hard and won clean and we need to jealously guard this virtue to remain credible and relevant in various sporting disciplines,” emphasized Tuwei. This comes after Marathoner Sheila Jepkosgei received a four-year ban after she confessed to the Sports Disputes Tribunal to have knowingly taken a prohibited performance-enhancing drug ahead of the Hari Sukan Negara 21km run, on October 8, 2016 in Kuala Lumpa. She finished third behind Kenyan duo of winner Gladys Jepkechei (1:15.50) and Naomi Wambui (1:23.08) after clocking 1:24.56.    