Will there be a repeat presidential election at the Coast tomorrow?  Some say yes, some say no, some say they don’t know.  The region, a perceived NASA stronghold, has received special focus from the Kenya Police Service. Reinforcements have been deployed to ensure the election scheduled for tomorrow is not disrupted and voters and poll staff are safe. The IEBC yesterday assured it is ready for the rerun, especially in Mombasa, where anti-IEBC demonstrations have taken place for the past month. Mombasa elections manager Nancy Kariuki said on the phone, “We are moving on well and are ready for the repeat presidential poll.” She said presiding officers and constituency returning officers are ready. Only two of six Coast governors — Hassan Joho (Mombasa) and Amason Kingi (Kilifi) — have said there will be no election without thoroughoing reforms at the IEBC.  Mombasa MCAs warned that no election will take place. Joho and Kingi have, however, not come out to lead the anti-IEBC protests in their counties. Mombasa Deputy Governor William Kingi, Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir, his Jomvu counterpart Badi Twalib and Changamwe’s Omar Mwinyi have been at the forefront during the protests. Several times Joho has flown to Nairobi to join NASA leaders in the protests. Kariuki said their focus is the repeat poll and they cannot be distracted by political rhetoric. Unlike Kisumu and other counties where IEBC officials have received threats and even been attacked Mombasa officials are not known to have been threatened. There are claims some have resigned. The IEBC denies this. “I’ve not heard any of my staff being threatened. External pressure has not affected us.  We’ve planned our work without challenges,” Kariuki said. The county is expected to receive all the voting materials today. No anti-IEBC demonstrations have taken place in Kilifi, which voted overwhelmingly for NASA on August 8. Some county leaders have been categorical that there will be no rerun. Lamu, Taita Taveta and Tana River governors have been quiet on the anti-IEBC demonstrations. Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya has urged residents to vote for President Uhuru Kenyatta.  Mvurya and Lamu’s Fahim Twaha were elected on the Jubilee ticket. Tana River Governor Dado Godana of ODM has not discussed the rerun publicly. Taita Taveta’s Granton Samboja, elected on a Wiper ticket, is seen to be leaning to Jubilee.