We all want a united Kenya, where everyone
belongs to the government. A Kenya that we all belong to: The only duty of
leadership is to bring the people together and forge a united agenda for the
people and the country. The Supreme Court wanted the election done within
60 days. The IEBC is not prepared. I don’t know the solution because we are
already late. IEBC Chairman Wafula Chebukati had the time to go to the Supreme
Court and seek more time so that he can reorganize his team. He did not. 
Chebukati is a coward. He should know that he is the chairman because the
Kenyan people gave him a job. He knew the country was divided and should have
looked for a solution. It is high time President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA leader
Raila Odinga talked to each other to find a solution. Not their solution, but
the solution that serves the interests of the 45 million Kenyans. A lasting
solution so that we can live in peace. That is why I say our country should be back
from this very unnecessary conflict and another prolonged season of hatred.
 It is unacceptable to have the tension after every five years during the
polls. We must have a lasting solution where everyone elected becomes a
President for all Kenyans. Because Chebukati failed to do his part, it
is up to the two main leaders – the President and the former Prime Minister – to
take charge. Even if we go to the October 26 polls and
Uhuru is declared the President and half of the country is not happy, what is
the benefit of that! And even if we don’t hold the election and we are still
polarized it does not add value.  We need to be a united country so that
whoever becomes the President becomes the President of the whole country. I
want the 19 million registered voters to line up and vote, because it’s their
right and duty, in peace, in a fair, free and credible poll. Elections must
meet all the constitutional and international standards. The question Jubilee should ask themselves
is, For whose benefit is the October 26 election? Is it for part of the country
or the whole country! Elections should be done on behalf of the nation.  Uhuru and Raila must talk. Right now. Ole Kiyapi is a former CS and a 2013 Presidential
candidate        