IEBC is now seeking public views to determine whether the repeat of the presidential election scheduled for October 26 will take place or not following the withdrawal of NASA candidate Raila Odinga. Commissioner Roslyne Akomba on Sunday said the commission will visit all Nasa strongholds to establish if their call for no election hold waters. Akombe said the no election call by Nasa supporters is so pertinent that needs public and internal IEBC consultations to identify the way  forward.  The commissioner on Sunday told journalists part of their visit to Nyanza is to collect public views on the issue. She said after a training with Returning Officers from the region. "The trip was to make an assessment on the ground and listen to the county election managers in the counties over the issue of no elections," Akombe said. She said she cannot single handedly pre-empt whether there will be elections or no elections on October 26. "We will be forced to collect public views and consult internally to determine whether there will be elections or no elections," Akombe clarified. She however maintained that IEBC is ready to conduct the October 26 repeat elections despite the glaring challenges raised by Nasa. Akombe at the same time confirmed that only two presidential candidates are in the KEIMS kit for the October elections. She explained that with the high court ruling including other candidates in the ballot paper they will not transmit text results but image results of form 34A containing other candidates. "During the elections our focus will not be on KIEMS kit but on form 34As that will contain all candidates, " Akombe added. Read: IEBC locks out five as KIEMS only configured for Uhuru, Raila The commissioner said they had to make such an adjustment due to time factor insisting that the adjustment is in line with Nasa's irreducible minimums demand. Akombe said so far printing of ballot papers, registry and all forms has started in Dubai and they will be in the country in due course. Also Read:IEBC takes 'radical' steps for rerun, settles for Al Ghurair, Safaricom  