Deputy President William Ruto has said the government will not allow instability disguised as demonstrations. He yesterday said the government will ensure the rights of every citizen are protected - both those picketing and those conducting their daily business - without interference. Ten MPs allied to Jubilee Party said they will protect the business community in Nairobi from NASA ‘hooligans’. They spoke at Africa Independent Pentecostal Church of Africa Bahati in Nairobi. Ruto was accompanied by Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu, Johnson Sakaja (Nairobi senator), MPs John Kiarie (Dagoreti South), Kanini Kega (Kieni), Nixon Korir (Lang’ata), Yussuf Hassan (Kamukunji), Kimani Ichung’wa (Kikuyu), Charles Kanyi (Starehe), Waihenya Ndirangu (Roysambu) and Benjamin Mwangi (Embakasi Central) former MPs Dennis Waweru and Fred Gumo. Ruto said the country will hold an election on October 26 as stipulated in the Constitution, dismissing opposition calls to boycott the repeat polls. He said, “If it were up to us, we would have sworn in the President because he won the election. If it were up to our competitors, we would have formed a coalition government.” “But we have to respect the Constitution. The Constitution stipulates that if elections are nullified we have to hold fresh elections in 60 days.” The Deputy President said the opposition is hiding behind protests to push for a coalition government. “You cannot manufacture a crisis so as to seek foreign support to get to power. That is an illegimate way to ascend to power,” Ruto said. He said it was embarrassing for NASA leader Raila Odinga to ask his supporters ‘to cause violence’ then seek international community support with claims the political situation in the country required mediation. The leaders said it was only through the repeat election that the country will foster democracy. Sakaja asked Uhuru to assent to the election amendments bill quickly. “We ask the President to sign into law the amendments to the election laws so that we do not face further problems when we vote again on October 26,” he said. “We have amended the law to make sure there is clarity where the law was not clear.”          