A group of civil rights activists will demonstrate today in Nairobi to protest the killing of anti-IEBC protesters by police. Led by activist Boniface Mwangi, the protesters will petition the IG Joseph Boinnet and acting Interior CS Fred Matiangi. They will begin their demos from Freedom Corner at 11 am, through Kenyatta Avenue, Moi Avenue and end up at Harambee House and Jogoo House. A report by Amnesty International said officers killed at least 33 people during post-election protests in various parts of the country. Several others have been shot during the weekly anti-IEBC demos by Nasa. In a letter seen by the Star, Mwangi asked the police to provide the security needed adding that the protests are non-partisan. Mwangi said they are not paid to demonstrate. He cautioned those taking part against misbehaviour during the event. "No alcohol or pre-drinking. No violence. No weapons and no destruction or vandalism. Do not use threatening or abusive words or behave in a threatening manner towards others passing close to the picket line," he said. The activist asked the protesters not to damage property, either deliberately or recklessly. "Beware of agent provocateurs. The agent may be paid or unpaid to incite people or do things that may cause a breach. Alert the police if you notice suspicious behaviour," he said. Mwangi also asked them not prevent or attempt to prevent the police from carrying out their duties. The report by Amnesty International said the deaths were caused by bullets fired by police who moved in to contain unrest that sporadically erupted mainly in NASA strongholds. Most of the deaths were reported in slum areas including Kawangware, Kibera, Mathare North and parts of Nyanza.  The 37-page report titled 'Kill Those Criminals: Security Forces' Violation in Kenya' was released on Monday. But the police have disputed the report saying its misleading. "We wish to refute the claims as totally misleading and based on falsehoods. We are studying the report and will issue a comprehensive report later," police spokesperson George Kinoti said in a statement. More on this:Police dispute Amnesty report detailing 33 post-election killings In a similar report released last week, the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights blamed police for 37 deaths that occurred as police moved in to quell post-poll violence. The report christened 'Mirage at Dusk' said a majority of the victims killed were from one ethnic community.  Seven of those killed were minors, including a six-month-old baby who was hit on the head by a police officer in Kisumu. More on this: Nyong'o blasts security bosses at baby Samantha Pendo's requiem mass The Opposition which disputed Uhuru's win has called for sustained street protests to push for changes at the IEBC. NASA leader Raila Odinga, who has since pulled out of the repeat elections slated for October 26, says the electoral body is colluding with the Jubilee administration to rig the fresh poll.