IEBC Wafula Chebukati will not resign despite challenges concerning the repeat race for State House on October 26. Chebukati, said to have the toughest job in Kenya, said this on Saturday, noting IEBC is intact despite differences of opinion among commissioners. "There may be differences of opinion but the commission is united and committed to deliver a credible, free and fair elections," he said. He spoke in Eldoret, Uasin Gishu, during a training for election officials. Chebukati, who was with county returning officer Jackstonne Nyonje, will visit six training centres in Rift Valley and Western. The chair said the commission has decided to stay put and deliver on election day. He denied claims he walked out of his meetings because of differences with his colleagues. The agency has affirmed "radical changes" in the commission to ensure it delivers a free, fair and credible presidential rerun. Commissioner Roselyne Akombe announced this on Friday saying there will be zero tolerance to non-compliance with its new guidelines. More on this: IEBC takes 'radical' steps for rerun, settles for Al Ghurair, Safaricom Chebukati assured the election that now includes candidates other than President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto will go on as planned. The electoral agency boss said Raila, who withdrew from the poll alongside his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka, will be on the ballot. He reiterated that the ODM leader is yet to withdraw lawfully  "We have not received any other communication from him so we are proceeding with all plans as scheduled." Chebukati said five presidential candidates will be on the ballot because paragraph 71 of the High Court ruling on Ekuro Aukot opened the door for all. He added he does not foresee a situation where NASA blocks elections in its strongholds. "Our mandate is on elections and we are ready in all areas. There are institutions to ensure we do our work smoothly." Cyrus Jirongo has been excluded from the gazetted list of candidates running in the October 26 repeat presidential election. The politician was declared bankrupt by the High Court after he failed to pay a Sh700 million debt. "The candidate Shakhalaga kwa Jirongo is not eligible to participate in the fresh presidential election as he does not qualify under Articles 137 and 99 (2) (f) of the constitution," the IEBC said in the notice on Friday. Read: Cyrus Jirongo excluded as IEBC gazettes presidential candidates Also read: Raila may seek Supreme Court direction on October 26 poll