Politician Babu Owino, campaign term 'tibim' and the President's son Muhoho Kenyatta were among the most popular Google searches from September 24 to October 1. Babu, the Embakasi East MP whose real name is Paul Ongili, took position one after spending two nights in cell for apparently referring to President Uhuru Kenyatta as 'mtoto wa mbwa'. This saw him charged with subversion, insulting Uhuru and incitement to violence. He was released on Sh500,000 cash bail but was re-arrested and charged with  He was eventually released on Sh200,000 but warned against several offences including interfering with witnesses, skipping court and repeat crimes. Read: Babu Owino re-arrested moments after release on bail Also read: 'Free at last': Babu Owino released on Sh200,000 bail with warnings Second in the list was 'football' with EPL matches - Arsenal Vs West Brom and Chelsea Vs Man City - and then came the Google birthday surprise spinner.  Google celebrated its 19th birthday by allowing users to play 19 of its best games and interactive Google Doodles, all linked to the surprise spinner.  Fourth in the list of trending searches was 'tibim'. Coined by Babu, the word “Tibim” has received a lot of traction and could possibly be one of the most used phrases during this electioneering period. During an interview, the MP said the word takes different meanings based on where it is used. In church for example, he said, you used the word after saying your prayers and "the devil comes out running". In politics it refers to a revolution. Memorable slogans, parables, jokes, memes and songs have spiced up NASA chief Raila Odinga's renewed determination to take over State House. 'Tibim and 'Tialala' are among unforgettable words the Opposition's coalition has been using. Just like Raila, Uhuru's campaigns have featured catchy songs and phrases such as 'tano tena', which is Kiswahili for 'five more'. The President wants to rule for another five years before letting DP William Ruto take over. Read: Tibim, tialala and minji minji slogans, Githeri Man spiced up elections Hugh Hefner, the American businessman who created Playboy Magazine before spanning it into a media and entertainment-industry giant, took position five. Hefner died last Wednesday, aged 91. He will be remembered for fighting free-speech battles in courts and defying segregation while living a life of seemingly breezy bachelorhood as publicly as possible. The word ‘subversion’ came sixth among the top searchers. The Collins dictionary defines the term as an attempt to weaken or destroy a government. IEBC CEO Ezra Chiloba, whom the Opposition wants out before the repeat election on October 26, took position seven. Chiloba has said he will not resign and that he is busy preparing for the poll. Read: 'No October poll until Chiloba is out': NASA gives IEBC nine fresh demands Also read: ICT boss Muhati still in office, IEBC doesn't have to explain - Chiloba Kenya's love for wrestling was also exhibited by the number of those who went online searching for news and statistics of the WWE No Mercy matches.  'WWE No Mercy, No Mercy results' were eighth most popular searches. No Mercy is a professional wrestling pay-per-view event that took place on September 24, 2017, at Staples Center in Los Angeles, California. With a total of seven matches, the show lasted three hours and seven seconds. Muhoho trended at number nine after a video of him reading a 'mobile phone speech' during a Jubilee Party rally went viral. His vote of thanks in Kiswahili, during a tour of Nandi county alongsidethe Deputy President, drove a section of Kenyans and local comedians to start the #MuhohoChallenge. But the week ended on a sad note with Kenyans going online to search for news on the demise of Public Works Principal Secretary Mariam El Maawy.  El Maawy died last week in a hospital in South Africa, three months after an attack by fighters of terror group al Shabaab. More on this: PS Mariam El-Maawy dies in South African hospital