Kenya women’s volleyball team cross swords with unpredictable Egypt today in one of the semi-finals of African Nation Cup-cum-World Championship qualifiers in Yaounde, Cameroon. The other semi pits fast-raising Senegal against hosts Cameroon who shocked favourites Egypt during their last Pool ‘A’ preliminary match played on Wednesday night to finish top of the group.  Cameroon came from a set down to see off the North Africans 3-1(20-25,30-28,25-17,25-18). This is not the first time Kenya and Egypt are meeting. The two sides have met in as many International assignments before but on many occasion, Kenya have had an upper hand. However, Egypt locked Kenya out of the Olympic Games after winning the Africa qualifiers. This time round, Kenya will be seeking revenge after failing to qualify for the 2016 Summer Games in Rio.  Kenya come in today’s semis on clean sheet having won all their Pool ‘B’ matches while Egypt will be out to make amends after succumbing to hosts and hopefully qualify for the final, where they have been regulars. Reached for comment ahead of today’s match, Kenya coach Japheth Munala said all they need is to get thew reception right and everything else will fall into place. “I watched them (Egypt) play against Cameroon on Wednesday and they are strong in services and reception. But if we can receive well and our other departments work in unison, then we will register good results,” said Munala. He added: “It will be an interesting match and we look forward to it. But at the end of it all, we hope to proceed to the final and win the overall title.” Munala is likely to start with the team that won their last pool match against Tunisia on Tuesday night where he fielded sensational setter Jane Wacu. On form Edith Wisa and experienced Brackcidise Agala are expected to start at the centre position, with team’s captain Mercy Moim and hard hitting Noel Murambi taking care of the left attack department. Reigning Africa Most Valuable player Violet Makuto will start in the right attacking position with Agripina Kundu taking charge of libero position. The two top teams at the end of the event will book tickets to the next year’s World Championship in Japan.