Private primary schools on Wednesday asked the government to scrap off VAT on digital learning devices so that they can be affordable to learners. Kenya Private Schools Association chairperson Mutheu Kasanga said
they will need about Sh600 million to buy around 4 million devices for a
start. She said schools will initially buy the devices for
approximately 1.8 million pupils in 11,000 primary schools over the next
three years.  "We are looking at spending between Sh15,000 and Sh18,000 per device. Let the government scrap VAT on the gadgets to
make them affordable." She spoke on Wednesday during the launch of the Taifa Elimu devices for private schools at Safari Park hotel in Nairobi. "We can't go beyond that.
Looking at it, the figure is mind boggling because we are not
government sponsored," Kasanga said. Private primary schools are not covered under the government managed digital learning programme. Parents and individual schools will, therefore, incur the full cost. JKUAT Vice Chancellor Mabel Imbuga said the gadgets will be available to the schools at pocket-friendly prices. The government, through the education and ICT ministry, started distributing the Taifa Elimu tablets in public schools last October. Prof Imbuga said the devices will be sold with content loaded from the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development. "It is exactly the same content that was put for public primary schools," she said on Wednesday. President Uhuru Kenyatta, in a speech read on his behalf by ICT CS Joe Mucheru, said he is satisfied the project will benefit the country. JKUAT and Moi University were in February last year picked to supply, install and commission digital learning devices to 22,000 public primary schools. JKUAT, in partnership with Positivo BGH, was contracted to supply the devices in 21 counties while Moi University and JP SA Couto was to supply the gadgets across 26 counties. The bid winners were charged with supplying teacher digital devices, learner digital devices, special needs education learner digital devices, servers, routers and projectors. Three schools, in urban, peri-urban and rural areas, were selected across the 47 counties for the pilot before the massive roll-out. Imbuga said they have so far supplied and installed over 329,000 devices in 7,238 public primary schools across the 21 counties.  "What is remaining now is maintenance which will go on for the next four years," she said.          