Murang'a senator Irungu Kang'ata has faulted Director of Public Prosecution for ordering the arrest of Kandara MP Alice Wahome over accusations that she assaulted a returning officer in her constituency. Kang’ata who has come out to support the MP also accused the DPP of being selective in the administration of his work The senator wondered why the DPP has not issued a similar order against Mathare MP Anthony Oluoch for interrupting a press briefing by jubilee leaders last Thursday that resulted in a scuffle. The DPP, he said, has also done nothing about Nasa leaders who incited their supporters to block elections in their areas. “The DPP has also not done anything about the youths who barricaded roads and blocked people from accessing polling stations,” Kang’ata said. He also claimed that Dagorretti North MP Simba Arati has been incriminated in the recent unrest in Kawangware that resulted in the death of two people and massive destruction of property. “Why has he not ordered for the arrest of the MP either?” the senator asked. He pointed out that Wahome was right in defending President Uhuru Kenyatta's votes saying that hers was an act of bravery. Speaking at Mumbi Catholic Church in Murang'a town on Sunday, Kang'ata said the MP was not fighting to have the results altered but to have an error that had been committed by a presiding officer. Wahome had earlier said that a presiding officer in Kiiri polling station had posted the results wrongly, giving the 410 that President Uhuru had gathered to Japheth Kaluyu. Wahome said he had asked the returning officer to allow more time to agree on what to do about the wrong entry but that he refused and was uncooperative. "The returning officer refused to record the error that had been committed like he should have done," said the senator. The error, he said, should have been recorded in IEBC’s diary as provided for by the law. Kang’ata said he will defend the MP with zeal and that he will offer her legal services if she is arrested and prosecuted.  The DPP ordered the police to investigate and arrest the MP after a video showing the MP having a public disagreement with Kandara returning officer Martin Malonza surfaced on social media.  