A joke over the bill for refreshments earned Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen the wrath of several NASA leaders yesterday. They chased him away from the Panafric Hotel during a live press conference. The Senator was confronted by Mathare MP Anthony Oluoch, who interrupted the briefing by removing the microphones from the stands. The leaders engaged in a scuffle and bitter exchange of words after Murkomen insinuated he was going to settle the bill for a group of NASA MPs, who were relaxing at the hotel after holding their own press conference. Murkomen said on live TV that Kenyans should not fight on behalf of politicians, yet the politicians remained friends and even shared tea.  He said, as a matter of fact, the MPs who had just held a press conference before him were drinking tea at the hotel and he was going to settle the bill. The opposition MPs, who were watching live TV at the premises, stormed the Jubilee presser.  Murkomen was accompanied by Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja and nominated MP Jennifer Shamallah. The NASA MPs were further irked by Murkomen referring to opposition leader Raila Odinga's new outfit as the "National Rebel Movement". The Senator had said Raila had called for a boycott of the polls and had spent the day making phone calls to ensure the no-show was successful. As soon as Murkomen finished his remarks and invited Shamallah to address the press, Oluoch stormed the venue, catching the Jubilee team unawares. "You cannot come here and tell people on national TV that you will pay our bills...we paid for this venue...we are MPs...how can you pay our bills?" he asked. He was referring to the fact that NASA had paid the hotel for the venue and invited journalists for the press conference. Oluoch said Murkomen had no right to call Raila names. "You can't come and call Raila names on a ground that I have paid for. This is wrong," he said. Oluoch removed all the microphones that Murkomen was using, forcing the Jubilee team to leave the venue. Kibra MP Kenneth Okoth said Jubilee was desperate to retain power. "What we have seen here is the desperation of Jubilee. To Senator Murkomen, shame on him. He has insinuated that only Luos heeded to Raila's boycott calls," he said. After some minutes, Murkomen came back with his Nairobi counterpart Johnson Sakaja, saying NASA was only displaying sideshows. "What we are seeing here is really unnecessary...they want us to respond even to jokes from our brother," Sakaja said.