NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga has been directed to respond to a suit that seeks to reverse the Supreme Court judgment that annulled the August 8 presidential election. Deputy registrar of the Supreme Court Daniel ole Keiwua told Raila to respond to the suit filed by Jackson Ndegwa and Edward Kings by close of business yesterday. Jubilee Party, which has been listed as a respondent, had also been directed to file and serve replies by yesterday. The application by the businessmen had earlier been rejected by Keiwua, but the two filed an appeal and will now appear before a single judge of the Supreme Court for further directions. Ndegwa and Kings say the September 1 judgment that invalidated President Uhuru Kenyatta’s win was erroneous and should be overturned. They say overturning the decision will save the country Sh12 billion set aside for the rerun. Their argument is that the Supreme Court should be the last court to sustain and enforce procedural technicalities against a party. They say the repeat poll is a huge burden to an already battered economy and the court should intervene for the sake of the public interest. The two say the judgment by the apex court was precedent-setting and might influence more election petitions involving senators, governors and members of the National Assembly. “Our case raises very serious constitutional issues and legal principles. The move by the registrar to reject the case is a violation of the Constitution in Articles 1, 3-1, 10, 22, 35 and 159,” Ndegwa said. The apex court, by a majority decision, nullified the August 8 presidential election. The court cited irregularities and illegalities in the transmission of results. CJ David Maraga, DCJ Philomena Mwilu, Justices Smokin Wanjala and Isaac Lenaola said the IEBC failed to conduct the poll in line with the Constitution and election laws. But Justices Jackton Ojwang’ and Njoki Ndung’u dissented and ruled that Uhuru was validly elected and there was no basis for invalidating the election.