NASA leader Raila Odinga has urged his supporters not to attack traders and supporters of his rival Uhuru Kenyatta. Speaking at a Kisumu rally on Friday, Raila said attacking those supporting Uhuru and his running mate William Ruto is of no gain as them too are innocently suffering because of Uhuru's bad leadership. “My supporters should desist at all cost any plan to revenge against any Kikuyu and Kalenjin people in Kisumu and other parts of the region. People from these areas are suffering just like you,” Raila said. Raila said the NASA coalition is focused to for a government that unite all Kenyans with no boundaries of tribalism or ethnicity. "Everywhere I go they call me Baba. The other day I was in Kiambu and they called me baba as Uhuru watched. The Kikuyu community are our people. Let us not take the sins of one person and put it in others heads," he said. He said he has no problem with Kalenjin and Kikuyu community noting his difference with Uhuru and Ruto is purely ideologies and not tribal. Raila strongly condemned the profiling of residents from Western and Nyanza regions adding that such will not be tolerated and must be stopped. He reminded Uhuru that the government of his father Jomo Kenyatta saw the killing of more than 60 people in Kisumu during his era. The opposition chief accused Jubilee administration of a plot to militarise the country ahead of the repeat presidential election. Raila accused President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto of plans to deploy military personnel and contingent of GSU officers to intimidate and harass innocent Kenyans.  He maintained that there will be no election scheduled for Thursday October 26. Raila urged Kenyans of goodwill to keep off from participating in the polls. He said Kenyans cannot waste their time to go to predetermined elections. The NASA leader accompanied by Musalia Mudavadi said the revelations by ex-commissioner Roslyn Akombe is a clear indication that IEBC cannot guarantee Kenyans free, fair and credible elections. “We are aware of the scheme by Jubilee government to use army and police to kill our supporters. Such plots will be thwarted at all cost,” he said. Raila told his supporters that he will give them way forward on the eve of repeat election. “I will tell Kenyans the next move on October 25 on how to counter the Jubilee plot to militarise the country,” he said. Read:Raila to give way forward on eve of repeat poll Also read:Don't dare disrupt the polls, Uhuru warns Raila during Mashujaa fete His running mate Kalonzo Musyoka also condemned the killings by police. Kalonzo who spoke on phone from Germany where he is on official duties faulted Uhuru and Ruto for shedding blood of innocent Kenyans for selfish interest. “I want to urge our supporters not to be party to the flawed exercise. We are ready to participate in a well leveled playfield where there are no thorns and stones like present,” Musyoka said. Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong’o condemned police brutality against innocent citizens during the anti-IEBC protest. He said most of the victims killed and injured during the protest by NASA supporters were not part of demonstration. Nyong’o said they have collected several spent cartridges labeled KDF during the running battles between police and protesters. The governor alleged the presence of state militia in Kisumu are with a motive to profile the Luo community. “The outgoing county police boss Titus Yoma told me that the alleged militias are not my police officers,” Nyong’o added. Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho echoed the sentiments of Raila saying that residents from Coast will not participate in the repeat election. He noted that Raila has followers countrywide and Jubilee should not underrate him and his supporters. Joho asked their supporters to completely boycott the repeat poll. “Raila has never killed anybody. He is our hero and we fully support him,” he added. Present were MPs Otiende Amollo - Rarieda, Onyango Koyoo - Muhoroni, Jared Okello - Nyando, Fred Ouda - Kisumu Central, Millie Odhiambo - Suba, Mishi Mboko - Likoni, Justus Kizito - Shinyalu and Opiyo Wandayi - Ugunja among others. Kisumu woman Representative Rosa Buyu, Gem MP Elisha Odhiambo and Emabakasi West MP Babu Owino were also present.