The best mark of civilisation in any society is how it treats its women. A society that commits atrocities on women is not only uncivilised but also underdeveloped. Indeed, a society where women do not feel secure and respected is not worth it for an insult to one woman is an insult to all women of the entire nation and beyond. It is an undeniable fact that men share close bonds with their mothers, in much the same way little girls hold special places for their fathers. Also, behind every great man, as the adage goes, there is a great woman. More often than not, men reach greater levels of fulfillment in their lives, when partnered with strong and understanding women. As captured by writer Sarah Brooks in a blog headlined ‘7 Incredible Facts about Women-Owned Businesses’, women today own approximately 38 per cent of all businesses. Women today do compete in areas where men used to dominate. They have gone from mere housewives to more than that, and slowly, men and those who still believe the common tradition that women should only stay at home have slowly shifted their views. Indeed, from hormonal changes to giving birth to a child, the life of a woman has a lot of struggles. It is perhaps for this reason that God gave maternal responsibility to women — they are more brave and responsible than men could ever be. It is, therefore, disheartening that in this era, we are seeing politicians throwing brickbats at women, some of whom are not their competitors but simply happen to be either spouses or mothers of their rivals. This belittling of women by political actors comes at a time Kenya has made huge strides in realising gender equality. Since the promulgation of the 2010 Constitution, the country’s leadership has tirelessly worked towards creating abundant opportunities for women regardless of their political, religious or tribal affiliation. Sadly, some of our political leaders seem not to appreciate the noble role women play in society. One of the great daughters of Kenya who has played a great role in shaping of Kenya’s history and destiny is Founding First Lady Mama Ngina Kenyatta. Mama Ngina stands out as a heroine whose role in the fight for the country’s Independence cannot go unnoticed. In fact, she received the Living Legends Award in 2015. The award recognises the continent’s unsung heroines, especially those who have previously participated in the emancipation of Africa, either socially or politically, among other struggles for the betterment of the African people. At the tender age of about 18 years, she was arrested soon after the colonial masters shipped her husband away to Kapenguria, and incarcerated him at Kamiti Maximum Security Prison. But when she went back to her home in Gatundu, she found that her house had been demolished. She became a farmer, planting maize, beans and potatoes and selling them at the market in Gatundu, just like any other rural woman. Apart from the jailing of her husband by the colonial administration, Mzee Jomo Kenyatta’s death in 1978 left her with a big burden of bringing up her family. The mother of the nation had to solely raise her children: Kristina Wambui, Uhuru Kenyatta, Anna Nyokabi and Muhoho Kenyatta, a task she took with total determination besides building a business empire that is the envy of many, including leaders across the continent. As Farmers Party, we appeal to political actors to take the advice of Nairobi Woman representative Esther Passaris, who urged agsinst disrespecting women in the race for political power. It is time to stop viewing women as second-class citizens, whose role in society is to accept the status quo and obey their male counterparts. We have to start addressing challenges women face when participating in the political sphere, such as lack of proper knowledge, with which to make informed decisions, patriarchal norms that always serve to oppress women, and lack of proper means to access power.  That’s the mark of civilisation. The writer is Farmers Party leader farmersparty@yahoo.com