Three Siaya county leaders have laughed off plans by IEBC to declare Uhuru Kenyatta president-elect. Led by Gem MP Elisha Odhiambo, they said it will be "awkward" for IEBC chair Wafula Chebukati to declare anyone president-elect based on October 26 repeat elections. Odhiambo noted the elections were not conducted in all 290 constituencies as outlined in the constitution. "Chebukati cannot cheat Kenyans that he conducted repeat elections when by now he can't even tell the turnout," he said. He advised the IEBC boss to call a reconciliation meeting with all parties with the aim of organising free and fair elections after 90 days. The sentiments were echoed by Alego Usonga MP Samuel Atandi and his Bondo counterpart Gideon Ochanda. "Chebukati was clear enough to say IEBC, as constituted, cannot conduct a free and fair election. Who was that fool to participate,?" Atandi posed. He said it this unpreparedness by IEBC was one of the reasons NASA opted to pull out of the repeat elections. "It's now clear that Deputy President William Ruto is the national returning officer especially after declaring results even before IEBC officials," Atandi said. More on this: IEBC to declare Uhuru president-elect without Nyanza numbers Also read: Chebukati vows to defend constitution, asks implicated officials to resign In an interview with CNN on Friday, Ruto confirmed the total number of votes cast were 7.5 million but the IEBC portal placed the number at 4.3 million. Atandi insisted that even if IEBC declares Uhuru the president-elect, the National Super Alliance will not recognise him. "As NASA leaders, we have a flare of activities to ensure that Uhuru is not sworn-in," said Atandi. Ochanda added that it is unfortunate that IEBC and Jubilee were destined to declare Uhuru president regardless of the shoddy process. The Bondo MP said the repeat elections collapsed immediately after Raila withdrew and that Uhuru "competed with himself and automatically emerged winner". "It's not surprising to see IEBC grappling to declare Uhuru president elect when he competed with no one." More on poll: Arrest Orengo for treason, Embu lawmakers say on Raila swearing-in Also read: It's hard to guarantee free election, IEBC won't tolerate threats - Chebukati    