Riot police in Kisumu turned their wrath on journalists when hundreds of NASA supporters took to the streets in another round of protests on Monday. Officers drawn from GSU hurled teargas canisters at journalists who followed them as they dispersed the crowds. They said they did not want to be followed and exposed. A Standard Media photographer was surrounded by officers who demanded that he surrender his camera or be dealt with. "Watu wa media watoke hapa ama tutalunch teargas (Journalists should leave or we will fire teargas at them)," photographer Denish Ochieng reported hearing an officer say near Kisumu Girls' High School. He said they had to run away after hearing this. At the round about near the main bus park, a group of 10 officers surrounded The Star's Faith Matete and demanded that she produce video of the protests. "We will not entertain journalists in Kisumu. You kisumu journalists think you are special...we will deal with you," an officer said during the argument that ensued. KTN's Rashid Ronald pleaded for Matete's release but was assaulted by an officer. "I had been called from Nairobi to go live. When they saw me holding the phone, they asked who I was talking to and who gave me the permission to do what I was doing," he said. "Before I could give them an answer they started beating me." Ronald said the OCS tried to intervene by informing police that he was a journalist but that they did not listen. Kisumu Journalists Union chairman Dickson Odhiambo sustained a leg injury while running after targas was lobbed. When members of the public saw the harassment, they shouted at the officers. They later stopped a number of motorists demanding to see if there were videos in their phones. Earlier in the day, NASA supporters peacefully marched towards IEBC's office and then headed back to the CBD. More on demos: [VIDEO] 'Until Chiloba leaves': Kisumu NASA supporters back on streets  Some of the officers who roughed up journalists near the main bus park in Kisumu, October 9, 2017. /FAITH MATETE PEACEFUL MARCHES IN MAKUENI, VOI In Makueni, two MPs and ward representatives led Opposition supporters in peaceful anti-IEBC demonstrations along Mombasa-Nairobi highway. Kaiti MP Joshua Kimilu, Kilome's Thaddeus Nzambia and 23 MCAs took part in their first protest since NASA chief Raila Odinga called the mass action. The protests are a push for the removal of several IEBC officials from office for allegedly bungling the August 8 national vote. The protesters chanted pro-NASA slogans as they headed to IEBC's office in Makindu.  They lit bonfires on the road causing traffic snarl-ups before police used teargas to disperse them.  Police officers during NASA's anti-IEBC demonstrations in Kisumu county, October 9, 2017. /FAITH MATETE In Voi, MP Jones Mlolwa and former Wundanyi legislator Thomas Mwadeghu led the protests. They led a peaceful march to the central business district before camping outside the electoral agency's sub-county office at the Scripture Mission building. In his address, Mlolwa insisted NASA will not go for the repeat presidential polls if IEBC CEO Ezra Chiloba and other officials accused of electrical malpractice are not fired. "Let IEBC drop Al Ghurair that carelessly printed ballot papers and technology supplier OT-Morpho because these companies messed with our election." Mwadeghu, who lost the Taita Taveta governor race to Granton Samboja, said the Opposition will challenge changes to election laws in court if Jubilee legislators pass them in Parliament. Read: One shot in NASA's Nairobi demos, three run over by van Also read: 37 killed in post-poll demos, bribery and hate campaigns rife - KNCHR