The IEBC is expected this morning to oppose proposed radical electoral law amendments pushed by President Uhuru Kenyatta's Jubilee Party. The commission is to present its memorandum of opposition to the Joint Select Committee holding public hearings on the contentious changes. They would drastically reduce the powers of the IEBC chairman and of the Supreme Court to declare the winner in a presidential eleciton. "The chairman will present the commission's position to the joint committee on Wednesday," a source familiar with commission discussions told the Star.  It is understood the commission says the timing is wrong — so close to the October 26 presidential rerun — and some proposed amendments are unconstitutional. The international community has also argued against pushing through contentious amendments at this time. The IEBC will also tell MPs and senators they should not look for quick fixes but instead undertake a comprehensive review of electoral laws after the rerun. "The commission believes that instead of targeting the (IEBC) chair or any individual while amending the law, Jubilee should wait for the election to be done and a comprehensive review undertaken. In fact,we believe the chair's position should be made executive since and commissioners are involved in operational issues," another commissioner said. Jubilee's push for electoral changes was informed by fears IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati could resign before declaring the winner of the poll. The current law says only the commission chairman, a distinguished lawyer by profession, can declare the presidential results. But it does not provide for a case in which the chairman is absent, This means in the absence of Chebukati, none of the commissioners has legal authority to declare results. In an effort to correct this inconvenience, Jubilee has sponsored the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill 2017 that seeks to drastically reduce the chairman's powers, while empowering the vice chairman. Curiously, Jubilee has also sneaked an amendment to remove the requirement that the IEBC chief hold a law degree and be qualified to sit on the Supreme Court. Today Chebukati is the only holder of a law degree among the commissioners. Jubilee wants to lower the bar. This amendment would allow Chebukati’s vice chair, Consolata Maina, to declare presidential results in the absence of the chairperson. Maina is a pubic relations professional. The proposed changes say if both the chairman and the vice chairman are absent, the other commissioners would elect one of themselves as chair. This would make it possible for at least three commissioners to make a decision. The quorum for business would be lowered from five to half the existing members, but not less than three. Yesterday the Commission met NASA and Jubilee leaders to break the impasse and address outstanding issues of both sides. Uhuru, who was expressly invited, skipped the meeting and sent DP William Ruto instead. Raila and his team attended. This ended in another standoff, putting in limbo the prospects of a fresh election on October 26. NASA has threatened a boycott if its demands are not met. After a three-hour meeting with the electoral agency, NASA poured cold water on the talks, accusing the IEBC of failing to demonstrate commitment to address its wide range of concerns. Raila's point man James Orengo told reporters the meeting had failed to make substantial progress because IEBC had turned down the coalition's 11 "irreducible minimums". The Siaya senator — who successfully led a battery of NASA lawyers to argue for annulment of Kenyatta's August 8 win — said IEBC had not bothered to address any of their conditions. "None of the issues we raised as the irreducible minimums have been met or responded to. We have left on the basis that nothing has been agreed on," Orengo said after the meeting at Bomas of Kenya. Raila and his co-principals Musalia Mudavadi, Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetang'ula left without talking to journalists. Earlier, IEBC chairman Chebukati and vice chair Maina held a one-hour closed meeting with Raila and Kalonzo to build consensus. Other NASA principals and lawyers Orengo and others waited outside. The talks appeared to have hit a snag after Orengo declared that millions of opposition supporters will hit the streets on Friday to demand electoral reforms. Orengo said IEBC agreed to form a technical committee with two representatives each from Jubilee and NASA to thrash out the contentious issues and end the standoff. But DP Ruto made no reference to any committee when Instead, he declared the meeting a success, saying the commission had properly briefed them on poll preparations. Ruto said, "We have no conditions, no minimum conditions,no irreducible minimum conditions. We are ready." Reinforcing Jubilee's position against NASA's demand to sack CEO Ezra Chiloba, the DP declared the IEBC was properly staffed.   Ruto said Jubilee will by Friday submit to the IEBC its list of close to 41,000 polling station agents. Regarding the election laws amendments, Ruto said both the IEBC and NASA have an opportunity to present their before the committee. The assertion by the DP solidifies Jubilee's push to amend the laws, days to the polls despite pressure from NASA and the international community to drop them. The technical committee under the stewardship of two commissioners was to meet last evening to iron out difficult issues. Orengo dismissed threats by influential western countries who warned politicians could be slapped with travel and other sanctions for derailing the election. "Demonstrations is a right that we will continue to enjoy without any cohesion or blackmail for us to behave in a certain way or fashion," Orengo said after the meeting, referring to foreign diplomats. He said, "We're not very enthusiastic about going to the United States of America." NASA has called for countrywide mass protests to pile pressure on the IEBC to effect far-reaching changes and to push for scrapping election laws amendments. Raila's four-party alliance has accused the officials of bungling the August 8 presidential polls and says hey cannot be trusted with a rerun. Earlier IEBC commissioner Roselyne Akombe clarified that IEBC not scheduled a joint meeting with NASA and Jubilee presidential candidates.  She said the commission briefed the two presidential candidates on preparations for the rematch. Akombe explained the commission is now in the process training Returning Officers to use election electronic devices.