NASA supporters in Migori gave police a tough time on Friday on suspicion they wanted to move ballot materials for Saturday's repeat polls. IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati ordered the repeat in Migori, Siaya, Kisumu and Homa Bay following disruptions on Thursday but the people have declared they will not vote. More on this: Siaya searches for Saturday election officials, Homa Bay vows no voting Also read: Clerics tell IEBC off over repeat election in Nyanza counties Three people including a 12-year-old girl were shot in Migori town as crowds engaged police in running battles. They were rushed to Oruba Nursing Home which has been at the epicenter of the clashes. Anti-riot police officers, especially from the General Service Unit according to residents, raided businesses and residential estates and harassed journalists as they tried to move through the town. The raids took place in Oruba, Kimaiga, Apida, Banana, Total and Nyasare estates. A helicopter flew over estates as police patrolled on the ground. At about noon, youths who had been guarding premises, started receiving social media alerts that material locked at IEBC offices was being moved to constituencies. They charged and gunshots and teargas canisters were fired but the protesters stayed put, forcing officers to retreat. The demonstrators blocked roads to prevent the delivery of materials to Suna East, Suna West, Awendo, Rongo, Nyatike and Uriri constituencies. Several lorries and pick-ups of police officers were spotted at IEBC's office, which is a kilometer from the town. At the impassable yet key Migori town bridge, a protester said: "We will not have a repeat election on Saturday. We are ready for a standoff even if they repeat it for the 100th time." KTN cameraman Rashid Abdalla was attacked by GSU officials who took a memory card from the equipment, before journalists were forced to remove the barricades. Radio Lake Victoria correspondent Basil Okoth was also assaulted by GSU officers and was rushed to St Joseph Ombo Mission Hospital. "In the morning, officers told us they would discipline us during the demonstrations and warned us to keep off. The intimidation was complete with threats to fire at us," said Jesse Sikali, a cameraman with Ebru TV.  Edwin Onditi, who operates Kobia Welding Workshop in Kimaiga estate, said he closed his shop and continued working after hearing gunshot but that he was attacked. Onditi and his wife Esther were assaulted by retreating GSU officers, overwhelmed by stone-throwing youths. The officers allegedly reportedly stole Sh18,640, two tables and an Itel phone. "As they were beating me, they dropped a Sh40 coin saying they only deal with notes. The lights in the workshop attracted them." The businessman said attempts to record a statement at Migori police station failed as officers chased him away saying they would not deal with looters. At Banana estate, Jemima Atieno who is eight months pregnant said officers crashed window panes and wanted to lob teargas canisters into her house. They didn't fire teargas after noticing her pregnancy, she said, adding: "They found my sister in the compound and assaulted her before breaking her arm and retreating." Also read: No need to protest, boycott Saturday polls, Raila tells supporters