Police have been accused of shooting dead
the son of a deceased city billionaire. Gunmen yesterday killed Bunty Shah at
around 3am. He is the son of the late Vipin
Shah of Bobmill Mattresses. 
He was confirmed dead while being taken
to hospital.
 Bunty was shot in the chest.
Family sources said the 32-year-old father
of one was shot during a police operation
that was meant to arrest a suspect involved in
the Mogadishu bombing. 
The sources said officers from the Parklands station were called to the scene, but
they left after they were informed police
were involved. The sources said armed police shot Bunty
in a case of mistaken identity. 
A senior officer at the Anti-Terror Police
Unit denied claims their officers were involved. 
The top cop added that officers from the
unit were not involved in any operation on
Sunday morning. 
When the Star visited Shah’s home at the
junction of Peponi and General Mathenge,
there was horrendous damage to property.
 The gate was broken.
Repair works were ongoing.
 Security guards said hooded men attacked
the home after knocking down the gate using
a big truck. The attackers, said to have been in three
Toyota Prados without number plates, assaulted
the guards, as others broke the doors
to the main house using crude weapons. 
When the attackers stormed into the
home, Bunty, standing at the balcony, started
shooting in the air to scare them away.  He
suspected they were thieves, the family said. The attackers immediately fi red back. 
Under police procedures, officers from
outside an area of command must report to
a local police station or division commander
of their presence before undertaking an operation.
 For example, a police officer from the
Pangani police station or DCI, who intend to
conduct an operation in the neighbouring
police division, must report to the station
commanders of their presence and the intended
operations. 
By last evening, there was no official communication
of the incident — either from police
spokesman Owino Wahongo or George
Kinoti.
 Nairobi police Chief Japheth Koome said
he was not aware of the shooting and is out
of the city.