Results from Thursday's presidential rerun have exposed IEBC's election fraud in the nullified August poll, Opposition leaders have said. The commission announced that month that President Uhuru Kenyatta got 8.3 million votes, about 1.4 million more than NASA candidate Raila Odinga. NASA, which is now the National Resistance Movement has said the drop in the number of Uhuru's votes, to an estimated four million in the rerun, shows Jubilee Party conspired with IEBC to rig. The commission is chaired by Wafula Chebukati, said to be the man with the toughest job in Kenya, who said he could not guarantee a free, fair and credible election. The agency and Jubilee Party have denied rigging claims raised by Raila Odinga (ODM), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya). Read: It's hard to guarantee free election, IEBC won't tolerate threats - Chebukati Raila's chief campaigner and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi lauded supporters for boycotting the election, leading to the low voter turnout, in the coalition's fight against election injustice. "By staying away, we have all made the case that indeed we, the people, are sovereign," Mudavadi told a press conference in Nairobi on Friday. "The citizens have finally opened the servers that IEBC refused to open. The boycott has shown the so-called numbers and percentages that Jubilee and Uhuru Kenyatta have been talking about were all along fraudulent." The politician said Kenyans, especially their supporters, have sent a message that citizens are sovereign and cannot be easily coerced by Jubilee's "huge amounts of money and sweeteners". He said these were what Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto splashed on election losers and in Opposition strongholds to lure them. "Uhuru lost elections in August. He has again lost this sham one, in which he was basically running against himself. We are profoundly concerned at state profiling of a part of our country, with sinister violent motives that could lead to a massacre of innocent people," he said. ETHNIC PROFILING Regarding the repeat vote in four of Raila's Luo Nyanza strongholds, Mudavadi said this is a "wicked attempt at ethnic profiling". The counties are Kisumu, Migori, Siaya and Homa Bay, where most residents have violently resisted what they have termed forced voting. Mudavadi said: "Beefing up security here is a euphemism for state preparation to unleash even more lethal force and violence into these counties than has been witnessed in recent times. "We are deeply concerned that Jubilee has now militarised elections. Conducting elections is now being used as an excuse and platform to commit genocide." Read: No need to protest, boycott Saturday polls, Raila tells supporters Also read: Girl, 12, among three shot as police disperse Migori protesters The politician said the profiling is being done through the Interior ministry, whose acting Cabinet Secretary is Fred Matiang'i, and the National Police Service. "Following the Supreme Court’s invalidation of the presidential election on September 1, the government has systematically profiled Luo Nyanza as an intransigent zone for purposes of genocidal pogroms," he said. "It has gone on to subject the residents to state violence and terror, in which precious lives have been lost." Mudavadi asked residents of these counties to stay away from the polls. "In the event that (the election commission) refuses to listen to wisdom and instead goes on with this meaningless forced poll, we advise the people not to walk into this trap of death." IG Joseph Boinnet denied reports that police are using excessive force on NASA supporters. Speaking to journalists in Nairobi during the presidential rerun on Thursday, he said police are managing security in counties facing challenges. "Some goons are preventing the election but we are managing it according to the law. We don't use excessive force on our people," he said. "The situation in all counties is okay except for parts in Nyanza and Nairobi (Kibera and Mathare)." More on this: Boinnet denies use of excessive force to disperse Raila supporters Also read: NASA accuses Chebukati of 'ethnic profiling' after vote pushed in Raila zones