Government spokesperson Eric Kiraithe has accused NASA of bribing the IEBC and Judiciary to sabotage the October 26 repeat election. He said they are investigating a conspiracy by the Opposition to "subvert the constitution" ahead of the exercise on Thursday. "This scheme is in full gear and one commissioner has already betrayed Kenya, picked their loot and is now an icon in the conspirators scheme of things," he said in a statement on Saturday. Kiraithe said the grand strategy is to postpone the repeat election but to "permanently road block any presidential elections in the foreseeable future". "With the IEBC the first tactics include inducing the commissioners to resign at critical moments in the process so as to sabotage the elections," he said. Kiraithe said the second strategy is to commit the commissioners to make public statements that imply that IEBC is not unable to conduct elections. Although he did not name the commissioner in the statement, he was inferring to Roselyn Akombe who resigned from IEBC and fled the country. Akombe said  the repeat poll "absolutely" cannot be credible as they are being organised by a very "divided commission". She told the BBC, in an interview from New York, that she and her brother had received death threats. The brother has already fled Kenya. More on this: Citing death threats, Roselyn Akombe quits IEBC Also read: 'Crook or history maker'? Two women politicians speak on Akombe's move "The compromised commissioner has continued issuing private and public statements to the effect that powerful forces have been interfering with their work even as they continue clandestine engagements with the conspirators," Kiraithe said. NASA leader Raila Odinga has called for countrywide protests on election day saying IEBC is unable to deliver a credible poll. But Kiraithe claimed NASA has bribed the Judiciary and the IEBC to do their will, which will eventually kill Kenya's development and progress and make it an international pariah. "The bribery is to induce them to give court orders and interpretations to the law which will ensure that holding a presidential election in Kenya becomes perpetually untenable," he said. Read: Raila stole my victory by misleading Supreme Court, says Uhuru "The key pranks of the plan is bribery of compromised office holders in the judiciary and IEBC with huge sums of money, use of violence to prevent Kenyans from voting," Kiraithe added. He said the Opposition is planning to use violence by acquring illegal firearms. "... they issue them to hired criminals and use them to maim and kill vulnerable members of the society under circumstances where our police officers will be blamed," he said. "The maneuver aims at indoctrinating parts of the public against the rule of law and the government." He said the shooting of vulnerable members of the society in some areas of Nairobi, Kisumu and Homa Bay during recent riots is "in execution of this devilish plan". Police have come under heavy criticism for using force against protesters during anti-IEBC demonstrations and shortly after results were announced from the nullified August 8 general election. Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch reported that 33 people were killed by police, but the police say four have died. More on this: Police dispute Amnesty report detailing 33 post-election killings "The slogan “Luo Lives Matter” is intended to spread fear among innocent members of the Luo community and rally them behind the plotters," Kiraithe said. Kiraithe said the plan also includes a vicious social media campaign to polarise Kenya by spreading false information that members of NASA are targeted for violence in central Kenya.