The 12th General Election continues to make unprecedented history. On September 1, it produced the first presidential election victory in Kenya and Africa to be annulled by a supreme court. The Supreme Court of Kenya pronounced the August 8 Presidential election “invalid, null and void” and ordered a repeat poll within 60 days, or by November 1. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission first announced the rerun for October 17 and then for October 26. On Tuesday October 10, former Prime Minister Raila Odinga, who had petitioned President Uhuru Kenyatta’s reelection on August 8 as announced by the IEBC, orally announced at a press conference held at the Okoa Kenya headquarters in Lavington, Nairobi, that he had withdrawn from the October 26 rerun. The same day, he also wrote to the IEBC, confirming the same. Significantly, however, Raila did not fill out Form 24B, a requirement for all candidates who need to withdraw from an election. Like the Supreme Court majority of four judges led by Chief Justice David Maraga on September 1, Raila’s move brought on a new wave of uncertainty. All over again, the daily newspapers told the story of this stunning move, plunging Kenya into yet more uncharted territory: The Star headlined its Page 1 Splash story, “Uncertainty as Raila withdraws from Oct 26 poll”; the Daily Nation said, “What it means”; and the Standard “Six tough options after Raila’s pullout”. The story made the headlines on CNN, the BBC and other Western media.   THE ‘OBITER DICTUM’ MOMENT In Nairobi, much was made on social media and FM radio and TV stations of an obiter dictum remark in the Supreme Court’s Presidential election petition case of 2013 that Raila lost to Uhuru.  The talking heads on the TV chat shows invoked the remarks without first looking at the dictionary definition of what an obiter dictum is: “Law noun: obiter dictum; plural noun: obiter dicta, a judge’s incidental expression of opinion, not essential to the decision and not establishing precedent, an incidental remark”. The 2013 incidental expression of opinion was invoked with all the authority of a precedent, even by lawyers. Lawyer Joy Mvodi, who clearly knows what an obiter dictum is, explained on TV on Wednesday morning, “it’s a by-the-way remark, the kind you make when you are heading for the door and you add, na ufunge mlango tafadhali”. One Jubilee strategist who spoke to this writer objected to Raila’s “No Reforms, No Election” agenda by saying that the NASA leader was still set on his mission of micromanaging both the Supreme Court and the IEBC’s mandates. Raila and his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka’s withdrawal was based on the grounds that the IEBC failed to fulfill NASA’s “irreducible minimums”. The move caused a wave of public concern and there was talk of panic in sections of ruling party Jubilee.   POLITICAL BIG DEAL Politically, NASA’s walking away from the October 26 rerun is a very big deal indeed. But legally it could be viewed as an anthill. The IEBC will need the Supreme Court’s advisory for clarity and the way forward. The legal interpretations are countless, but the Supreme Court has the advisory capacity and authority. A quorum, not a majority of the Supreme Court justices, will most likely hear the IEBC. Raila is no longer a Presidential candidate. Article 62 of the Elections Act requires that you cannot withdraw from the race more than three days after nomination. But Raila’s actions are primarily political; they have little or nothing to do with the fact that an election must be planned as it has administrative and logistical legal requirements and timelines. Jubilee is full of people who see Raila’s participation in the 12th General Election as being fundamentally mischievous, from the outset. Inside Jubilee circles, Raila has been viewed as a one-time coup maker who supported the August 1 1982 attempted putsch by disgruntled junior elements of the Kenya Air Force. He is viewed as having approached the General Election with a coup mindset and attitudes. Raila has made earth-shaking allegations about why the August 8 contest was null and void, accusing a whole range of individuals and institutions of the most complete wrongdoing and criminal conspiracy – from Intelligence officers to both serving and retired military men, to the IEBC and Safaricom, whose CEO Bob Collymore has called NASA’s accusations against his staffers “callous” and “life-threatening”. On Wednesday morning, the day after he quit the race, Raila gave Radio Jambo, a Radio Africa Group station, an interview at his Karen home in which he made a new claim and cemented a couple of earlier claims. Raila told Jambo that ballot papers were already being secretly printed in a plant in the Industrial Area in Nairobi and stuffed into ballot boxes.  The fact that there is no printing press in Kenya with the capability of printing security features such as are used by the Dubai-based al Ghurair Printing and Publishing Press, which NASA insists must not supply ballots for another Kenyan election, did not bother him. The IEBC on Thursday urged Kenyans to ignore “rumours” that ballot papers were being printed in Nairobi.   ‘I HAVE WON SINCE 2007’ – RAILA In the same breath, Raila told Jambo, “Everyone knows I won [the 2007 Presidential election], I was leading Kibaki with more than a million votes with a few constituencies to go. Then an order was given for live transmission of results to stop. Then they announced that Kibaki won and people started demonstrating.” He went on, “In 2013, Uhuru did not win and he knows it. The tactic they used where a computer was doing the voting was used again during the August 2017 election – but we caught them.”  In the meantime, Raila appears to be out of an election that is scheduled to take place. NASA contends that the effect of the withdrawal is that a fresh election will have to be held, starting with fresh nominations of candidates by political parties. NASA had given the IEBC 11 “irreducible minimums” that must be met before the October 26 rerun, among them the dismissal and prosecution of IEBC CEO Ezra Chiloba and 10 other officials. He called them architects of the rigging of the August 8 election. When the Supreme Court justices annulled President Uhuru’s reelection, they made it clear that they had found neither criminal intent nor culpability in the conduct of the polls. But NASA has found all manner of wrongdoing and a criminal international conspiracy run by a cartel. They have named managers and officers by designation and rank. But NASA is negligent about tabling irrefutable evidence for its accusations. This has been the case in the NASA allegations against Safaricom, ICT firm Safran-Morpho and ongoing stuffing of ballot boxes as well as US Ambassador Robert Godec, who has been accused of misleading Washington by relaying the Jubilee narrative to the exclusion of NASA’s. NASA’s 12th General Election’s presidential polls saga now threatens a repeat of the entire six elections, going all the way back to candidate nominations, according to apologists for NASA’s heterodox manoeuvres. This is an unlikely scenario even inside NASA, where Raila allies such as Governora Anyang’ Nyong’o and Wycliffe Oparanya, and many others, are already in office courtesy of the August 8 polls.   RAILA FINALLY CORNERED? By week’s end, Jubilee analysts were viewing Raila as having jumped the gun too early in an effort to beat the Election Laws amendments in Parliament without contemplating Justice John Mativo’s decision allowing the rest of the Presidential candidates to stand on October 26. Jubilee views Raila as being fundamentally cornered.  The Star headlined its story on the outcome of the Ekuro Aukot versus the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission and Others HC Petition No. 471/2017 case on Thursday, “Aukot court ruling scuttles Raila plan”.  Justice Mativo’s ruling touched on the obiter dicta issue in a most interesting manner. It means the passages Raila dwelt on in his withdrawal statement are not binding on the lower courts and are merely persuasive. This has killed Raila’s entire basis for demanding an entirely new election at six levels. Truth to tell, it has not been a very good week for Raila. Mativo on Monday ruled that the IEBC commissioners and Chiloba cannot be removed from office through street-level vigilantism, only through duly prescribed constitutional and statutory mechanisms that must be complied with strictly. This year is the 10th year since the PEV crisis of 2007-08 and the seventh year of the new Constitution. Kenya is a much more resilient polity than it was a decade ago and just before the rollout of the 2010 Constitution. The political hatreds, fear and loathing are every bit as keen as during the PEV and the April 2013 aftermath, but Kenyans are now contending by quoting the Constitution, which acts as a bulwark against their worst impulses and instincts. The combatants of 2007-08 are now 10 years older and a new generation of voters voted on August 8, and are set to vote in the rerun. In the meantime, whether or not he is on the ballot, Raila will read the Kenya Gazette notice, alongside many other Kenyans, that will include the six new candidates. It will be an amendment of the September 5 notice featuring candidates Uhuru and Raila. He can proceed to the Court of Appeal to remove his name from the ballot, but that is unlikely because the amendments in Parliament would have passed by then.   WHY DID RAILA QUIT THE RACE? Why did Raila quit the race, really? Jubilee strategists insist that President Uhuru was too strong in August and will be stronger still on October 26. They reckon Raila fears being seen to lose to Uhuru twice in barely three months, and this time by a much wider margin. Since August, UhuRuto have made major inroads into perceived opposition strongholds. They have just concluded a successful campaign tour of the Coast and the region seems to be thinking again about the ruling party. Uhuru and DRuto, who are frequent-flyer globetrotters by any measure, have not jetted out of Kenya for months now. But the NASA principals are all flying out, after having done their utmost to sabotage the October 26 rerun. Raila and NASA were clearly aiming at a game changer move with their sustained campaign against the October 26 election, but they may have ended up giving Jubilee a blank cheque.  If Raila petitions the result again, saying it did not follow the Constitution and the Election Laws, citing UhuRuto’s campaign strategies and arrangements (use of State House for campaign delegations, advertising the State’s achievements, giving out food-aid and land titles, paying off IDPs, campaigning via State officers and Cabinet secretaries, you name it) it remains to be seen whether the Supreme Court would annul two Presidential polls in quick succession.      