Kenyans would be more oppressed with Raila Odinga as president and Hassan Joho as Mombasa Governor, Hassan Omar has said. Omar joined President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto at Serani grounds in Mombasa on Monday, for a meeting with the region's leaders. The former Mombasa Senator just decamped from Raila's National Super Alliance to Jubilee Party. Omar was secretary general of Wiper whose leader is NASA Deputy President candidate Kalonzo Musyoka. He resigned after losing the August 8 governor race to ODM incumbent Hassan Joho and said he would pursue other interests. But he joined Uhuru's Jubilee Party on Sunday and said he will campaign vigorously for the President for his repeat race against Raila on October 26. Read: Omar resigns as Wiper secretary general, cites 'deep rooted' reasons Also read: Wiper leaders weak, Jubilee right in your bedroom, Omar tells Kalonzo Omar told Uhuru he lost trust in Opposition leaders when they "launched a witch-hunt" against former IEBC commissioners. This was based on fabricated claims, he claimed. "We cannot have a situation where Raila is president and Joho governor. This will be more oppressive to the people," he said. He added attacks on IEBC are nothing new but "usual mischief in the name of reforms". "Raila is seeking reforms without confronting key issues. He should be reminded that whatever he is terming as irreducible minimums are baseless demands," he said. Omar said IEBC Chief Executive Officer Ezra Chiloba and other commissioners should be allowed to carry out their constitutional mandate as the High Court has dismissed a petition to keep them from manning the repeat electin. "It is common knowledge that the Supreme Court found neither [IEBC chairman Wafula] Chebukati, Chiloba nor any commissioner culpable of any offence." But Omar urged Jubilee leaders to seek alternative solutions to ordinary citizens's problems. "You cannot deliver solutions by wearing a red shirt supporting Uhuru. It is high time we interrogated where your leadership is taking the country. Let us not just prosecute issues but deal with them conclusively." He noted Mombasa has a problem with packaging messages but can deliver "tremendously" for Jubilee should changes be made before the vote. More on Coast tour: Quit race if disinterested, Kenyans tired of suspense, Uhuru tells Raila Also read: We'll shave Raila with rusty razor, give Uhuru all votes - Coast leaders