The Opposition is duping Kenyans so they should vote for Jubilee on October 26. This was part of the President's message during his Thursday tour of Chief Justice David Maraga's Gusii home turf. The President, who has rolled out a vigorous campaign blitz for a second term is campaigning in areas neighbouring Maraga's native backyard. Uhuru said the Kisii community has a high stake in government as acting Interior CS Fred Matiangi takes third place after he and DP William Ruto. He also assured the people his Jubilee Party is inclusive. "Nawaomba mkubali tutembee pamoja...mimi nawaomba kura...wale wenzetu wanazunguka wakisema Jubilee haileti watu pamoja...msidanganywe (I am asking you to walk with me...I am asking you for votes...our rivals says Jubilee does not unite people...do not be deceived)," he said. "Ni wakisii wangapi mnaona huko NASA? Ni swali ya haki...upande wetu....ukiangalia serikali yetu, Ruto akiwa deputy, halafu nani anasimamia usalama? Nani anasimami elimu? Ni mkikuyu na mkalenjini (How many Kisiis are in NASA? It is a question of rights...when you look at our government, Ruto is the DP...who is in charge of security? Who is in charge of education? Is it a Kikuyu or a Kalenjin)?" Matiang'i is also Education Cabinet Secretary. Uhuru said the truth should be told - that Central Bank chairman Mohamed Nyaoga is from the community. "Si ni mtoto wenu? Mnaweza sema eti wakisii wamefungiwa nje kweli? Tutembee pamoja wenzetu (Isn't he your child? Can you really say you have been locked out? Let us walk together)." Uhuru visited Maraga's home turf a month after his verbal assault on the Supreme Court head after it nullified his August 8 election victory. The tour of the Gusii region is a culmination of a series of consultative meetings which he has held in recent weeks with opinion leaders and influential leaders. In the afternoon, Uhuru will head to Obure's bedrock of Sameta in Bobasi Constituency for a rally. He will then leave for Marani in Kitutu Chache North, that is represented by National Assembly deputy majority leader Jimmy Angwenyi (Jubilee). The area is also the home of Kisii Governor James Ongwae who was re-elected on an ODM ticket. Uhuru is expected to receive former West Mugirango MP James Gesami who ran for Nyamira governor as an independent but lost to ODM's John Nyagarama. Read: Blow to Raila as former MP James Gesami joins Uhuru Jubilee's tour comes a day after NASA leader Raila Odinga hosted leaders from the region at the Okoa Kenya secretariat in Nairobi. The leaders pledged to mop up the region's vote for the ODM leader and downplayed Jubilee's forays. More on campaigns: UhuRuto, Jubilee leaders take campaigns to Murang'a Also read: Uhuru to tour CJ Maraga's Nyamira home turf on Thursday