IEBC has ruled out the possibility of postponing elections in polling stations marred by chaos beyond Saturday as slated. At least 5,319 stations did not send an opening message, meaning no ballot was cast in the areas during the Thursday poll. Chairman Wafula Chebukati said the commission will not keep on extending the voting saying the law has to be followed. He said the commission must work within the constitutional timelines for the announcement of the election winner. "The commission is under duty to give voters another chance to vote," he said during a press briefing at Bomas of Kenya. Voting in Migori, Siaya, Kisumu and Homa Bay counties did not participate in the election which is now set for Saturday. "Other areas where voting did not take place will also hold the fresh election on Saturday," Chebukati said. The fresh vote came after the Supreme Court annulled the declaration of President Uhuru Kenyatta as the August 8 winner. "We will gazette the stations on Friday for purposes of preparations," Chebukati said. The electoral agency said the election in some areas was affected by adverse weather conditions. "All those areas that did not vote will be given an opportunity to vote and those who don't want to vote will not be forced to vote," he added. Section 55b of the Elections Act allows the commission to postpone elections and hold them within seven days in such areas. The law lists natural factors preventing voting or issues that breach the peace and make it impossible to hold an election as the yardsticks. This includes heavy rains, poor road network or violence. Chebukati said observers are spread across a number of polling stations and their views will be considered before results are declared. He also said constituency returning officers will have to physically avail forms 34As at the Bomas of Kenya starting Friday. "Physical forms have to be taken to Bomas and returning officers will come here and bring the forms." "We have observers out there and we will all come here and say if the election was credible or not," Chebukati said. Read: Chebukati puts voter turnout at 48 per cent as polls close Also read: Chebukati defends 48 per cent voter turnout