KENYANS on social media are pressing Chief Justice David Maraga (pictured) to account exactly for where
Supreme Court justices Jackton Ojwang
and Smokin Wanjala were on Wednesday
that they could not attend the court hearing. Maraga told the court and the
public that the two were unable to be in the court during the hearing of the
case that was seeking to stop yesterday’s repeat presidential election
because they were “unable to attend”. Some also want to know which part of the
country Justice Njoki Ndung’u was in
as Maraga said she was out of Nairobi and could not fly back in time. To
most Kenyans, it amounted to absconding duty and Maraga, who is the President
of the Supreme Court and head of the Judiciary, should come out clearly on the
matter.    JUBILEE top honchos were struggling to counter reports that
residents of Mount Kenya finished voting by 2pm yesterday. Most polling
stations remained deserted and Kenyans never posted the evidence on social
media. It is at this juncture that Jubilee operatives instructed its close
allies to update on social media to tell the world that there was a 90 per cent
voter turnout. They were also instructed to post pictures of higher voter
turnout, with some using the old August 8 poll pictures. Some also used
pictures from other regions during the same election. One of the Jubilee
administration operatives and a former CS pleaded with his team to mobilise
supporters.   DID some NASA leaders silently mobilise youths overnight
to barricade roads ahead of the repeat presidential polls? Well, our little
bird told us that one of the capital city MPs, known to be in the company of
goons masquerading as his security, spent the better part of Wednesday night
holding meetings with youth groups in his constituency. The lawmaker, a
troublemaker with a cunning character, even paid a stipend to the youths for
blocking roads. The MP is said to have established a command post in the
Kilimani area to coordinate the activities of his gang that spent the whole
night erecting roadblocks illegally to bar voters from turning out to vote.   A certain Cabinet Secretary is secretly fighting to
cover his past after it came back to haunt him, following his previous career.
Of concern, is that several letters have emerged with serious allegations
against the CS, but he has not responded to them.   QUESTIONS emerged after 40 Jubilee agents in the Coast who had
received their allowances from the party mysteriously left the polling stations
during the October 26 fresh polls. Their handlers JP Headquarters claim that
NASA operatives also paid them, which Corridors could not verify.                 