Health workers in Marsabit and NGOs are on high alert following an outbreak of malaria in North Horr constituency. The disease has claimed at least 23 lives in two weeks in that constituency alone. But there are fears more residents could be suffering from the disease in their homes in other areas. Health officials said tests carried out on 590 residents on Wednesday revealed that more than 70 per cent have malaria.  North Horr subcounty director of health Huko Halake on Wednesday said 424 of the 590 residents in Dukana tested positive for malaria. Halake said two dozen residents suffering from the disease are receiving treatment at various dispensaries in the subcounty. The health official said the county government and humanitarian agencies have started supplying medicine to residents. “A large number of residents complained of severe headache. We established they have malaria. Most of them are emaciated,” Halake said. Head of Kenya National Malaria Control Programme Waqo Dulacha said 50,000 mosquito nets are being supplied to residents. Dulacha said the state has adequate anti-malaria drugs and assured residents there is no cause for alarm. “We are working closely with the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority, the Kenya Red Cross Society and Unicef to combat this disease and prevent further deaths,” he said. Blood samples collected from residents have been taken to the Kenya Medical Research Institute laboratories in Nairobi for further testing. Supply of medicines and treatment continues, Dulacha said. “Doctors will ensure the patients are treated and preventative measures are put in place before the rains begin.  The rains may escalate the situation as mosquitoes breed in stagnant water,” he said. Area MP Francis Chachu said he has received reports of deaths in various areas in the constituency. He urged the county and national governments to treat the outbreak as an emergency. Governor Muhammed Ali said the situation has been worsened by the ongoing nurses’ strike. He said the county government has urged voluntary health workers to help the humanitarian agencies in tackling the situation. Ali urged residents to visit nearby health facilities when they experience malaria-like symptoms. The malaria outbreak comes at a time when the drought ravages various parts of the county, including Saku and Moyale. 