Rigging is ongoing following the repeat presidential election on Thursday, Opposition leader Raila Odinga has said. Raila has complained of this before and had said he wouldn't again. He pulled out of his rematch with President Uhuru Kenyatta saying IEBC was incapable of a free, fair and credible process. He asked his supporters to boycott the vote. Opposition strongholds heeded the call and lower voter turnout was witnessed in many constituencies as Jubilee supporters went to vote. The turnout was estimated to be at below 35 per cent, dealing a blow to Uhuru's hopes for a decisive second-term mandate. More on this: In Kenya election re-run, polling incomplete and next steps uncertain Also read: With broken institutions and a reeling Opposition, what’s next for Kenya? Speaking to NBS Uganda on Saturday, the NASA principal said President Uhuru Kenyatta is rigging against himself as he has no numbers. "We have records where returning officers have been asked to beef up the figures. What they're doing right now is rigging against themselves. Uhuru is running against Kenyatta." Raila did not give the evidence. He accused IEBC and Jubilee Party of colluding to rig the August 8 vote but the two denied the allegations. Related: 'Uhuru got all votes': Alice Wahome dismisses results change claims "WE WON'T MOVE ON WITHOUT JUSTICE" Raila noted NASA is now a national resistance movement and reiterated their mission for justice, free and fair elections. "We are here not because we want to be but because of the electoral process and until that is rectified, we shall not move on," he said. "What we want is justice. We want a free and fair election but the country has been denied that for the past 12 years." He added Kenya is a great country and must be defended at all costs. On Friday, the ODM leader said he will make a major announcement next Monday "on the way forward" in light of the political impasse. He condemned destruction at Olympic Primary School and Raila Odinga Educational Centre in Kibera slum and blamed it on the outlawed Mungiki sect.  "I have come because of the crime that has been committed here. Thugs who appear to be Mungiki were sent here because of politics. "This is not normal thievery. They have destroyed property and burned stuff. This is a very inhumane act at a time our children are about to sit for their national exams," Raila said. More on this: Raila promises supporters way forward on Monday During an interview with the CNN, Raila ruled out any chances of holding talks with Uhuru after he is sworn-in. He said the grace period for talks with the president was over.   "We had suggested talking before the poll and they rejected this saying we were looking for half a loaf. But we only wanted to agree on the ground rules for this election," he said. "Right now what we are ready to talk about is how another election can be held within 90 days." Several politicians and religious leaders have called for talks but others are of the opinion that Kenya cannot take this route after every national election. Read: Kenya can't hold election talks every five years, Moses Cheboi tells Raila Also read: Bungoma Jubilee leaders 'ready to broker peace' between Uhuru, Raila