A nursery school boy was mauled by stray dogs at the border of Elgeyo Marakwet and Uasin Gishu counties on Monday morning. A resident rescued the six-year-old who was heading to school and rushed him to Iten County Referral Hospital. Good Samaritan Ben Kipchumba from Kapsimbol village said Brian Kibet was pronounced dead on arrival. Kipchumba said the boy had been sent home to collect school fees but was attacked as he returned at about 8.30am. Regarding the rescue, he said: "I saw a large number of dogs and decided to move closer to see what they were doing. "I thought they were eating an animal but they turned wild when I approached. I then noticed they were mauling the boy."  Kapchesimbol village resident Ben Kipchumba who took Brian Kibet to Iten County Referral Hospital after he was attacked by dogs, October 16, 2017. /STEPHEN RUTTO Kipchumba said he shouted for help for the Kapsimbol ECDE pupil. "I borrowed a motorcycle and rushed the boy to hospital but doctors said he had already dead. It is painful that we lost him after an attack by dogs whose owners are known." Brian's father Robert Kibet was counselled at the hospital. The boy's uncle Fredrick Kiptum said his nephew had been taken to hospital by the time he arrived and that the dogs ran into maize farms. "The family has not come to terms with what happened this morning. We are still asking many questions." He added authorities are not concerned about the rising number of stray dogs in the village. But Keiyo North veterinary officer Roselyne Bundotich said locals have not reported concerns about stray dogs. "We sympathise with the family for the loss of the child. This incident happened on the Uasin Gishu side of the border. We would have helped to kill the kill the stray dogs." She said plans to poison strays in various towns and shopping centres in Keiyo North are underway. "We have enough dog bait drugs in our hospitals but locals have not been giving us reports. They should volunteer information." Dogs mauled former the late Nyeri Governor Nderitu Gachagua's grandson on September 21. They were put down by veterinary officers. More on this: Vets kill six dogs that mauled Gachagua's grandson