On Thursday, Raila Odinga announced that he was changing tact by changing NASA from a coalition to a resistance movement. This was the much-awaited announcement after he pulled out of the residential repeat polls. But to many Kenyans, Raila’s withdrawal from the repeat poll never got us by surprise. As a matter of fact, President Uhuru Kenyatta had a day earlier anticipated the move while campaigning at the Coast. And his boycott threats date back before the August 8 General Election, when threatened to withdraw if Al Ghurair Printing and Publishing would be the printer of the ballots. On this, he did not make good his threat. The opposition chief then threatened to bolt out if the Court of Appeal overturned a High Court decision, which ruled that results announced at the constituency tallying centre would be final. The court ruled in his favour, and again, he didn’t make good this threat. And despite the threats, NASA still went to the polls but later disputed the result at the Supreme Court. The court, citing illegalities and irregularities on the part of the IEBC declared the election invalid, null and void and ordered fresh polls in 60 days. Many analysts anticipated Raila would launch a blitz of campaign rallies and assure his supporters his victory was stolen. Instead, NASA concentrated on ‘’No reforms, No election’’. This was a second chance on a silver plate. On the other hand, President Uhuru Kenyatta went back to the campaign trail at Nairobi’s Burma market hours after the ruling. Since then, President Uhuru traversed the country, looking for votes, at the same time receiving defectors from the opposition. Former Funyula MP Paul Otuoma and former Vihiga Governor Moses Akaranga are some of the key political figures that joined Jubilee In Western. The defections mostly in the perceived NASA stronghold must have shocked the former premier. Before the nullified polls, NASA described as fruitless efforts by Jubilee to woo the Luhya nation. But Jubilee went ahead and not only garnered a considerable number of votes but also bagged eight parliamentary seats. Raila had lost grip. And this might be one of the reasons why the opposition leader withdrew from the race. Bungoma county, for example gave 29 per cent of the presidential vote to Uhuru, courtesy of former Governor Ken Lusaka. To reward him for the good job, Lusaka was elected as the Senate speaker. This meant he would even get more votes in the repeat election. The defection wave did not spare the Coast, Ukambani and parts of Nyanza. They were so many that they caused the opposition a grievous political blow to a point they had not only tactfully withdrew from the presidential race but also covert into a resistance movement. The Supreme Court, while making its judgment, treated Forms 34As as the primary document, hence leaning the invalidation of the presidential election on transmission of results. Raila knows the primary document was the ballot paper. He knows if it were the document was considered in the determination of the case, he would have lost. In my view, this is another reason for his withdrawal, he don’t want to expose himself to another humiliating defeat. Cash constraints could also be a recipe of bolting out of the race. Mark Hanna, an American businessman and Republican politician, said ‘’ There are two important things in politics. Number one is money, and I don’t remember the second one.’’ Running campaigns without resources is a clear indication of poor planning and if you fail to plan you plan to fail. It was evident when they launched a playbill number, pleading with Kenyans of good will to contribute. Raila would not want to lose for the fifth time. He would become the first man to lose two presidential elections in three months. Seems the resistance movement was the way out.