The Attorney General’s office is created under Article 156 of the Constitution. The AG is the government’s principal legal adviser, represents the government in court or other legal proceedings to which it is a party, other than criminal proceedings. The AG ensures the rule of law is promoted, protected and upheld, and defends the public interest. The Office of the Attorney General Act No 49 of 2012 clearly spells out the functions of the office. They include advising government ministries, departments, constitutional commissions and state corporations on legislative and other legal matters. Also, negotiating, drafting, vetting and interpreting local and international documents, agreements and treaties for and on behalf of the government and its agencies. Further, the AG performs any function as may be necessary for the effective discharge of the duties and the exercise of the powers of the Attorney General. AG Githu Mugai, intelligent, courteous and respectful, is seen by jurist’s as one whose job is to defender the Jubilee administration and not as a defender of the public interest. His actions or inaction have come into sharp focus. They include the decision to close the Daadab refugee camp, bypassing the Senate on the Division of Revenue Bill, the crafting of controversial security laws, Anglo Leasing payments, standard gauge railway approval, his amicus appearance in the Supreme Court presidential petition and representation in the International Criminal Court. All these had nothing to do with the public interest. The AG is not only a member of the Judicial Service Commission, but also the titular head of the legal profession. He has, however, deliberately kept a studious silence as the President, Deputy President and Cabinet colleagues launched a tirade of attacks aimed at undermining the independence of the Judiciary and individual judges. He has not ventured to defend either the Chief Justice or advise the government that he serves against acts that undermine the Constitution. His defence, whenever these issues are raised, is that his is only to advise. He clearly admits that the government he serves in does not respect or honour his advice. Why serve in such a government? The contempt with which state officers have treated court rulings and judgments is astounding. Respect for the rule of law is anchored on the public interest. Scandalising the court is a more general form of contempt. It applies to publications seen as interfering with the continuing administration of justice by undermining public confidence in the courts. The AG has refused, rejected and or neglected to intervene when actions or pronouncements aimed at lowering the authority of the courts as a whole or that of its judges are uttered by powerful individuals. He has kept silent as they excite misgivings as to the integrity, propriety and impartiality of a judicial officer. This is not only a dereliction of duty but it undermines the constitutional mandate to protect the public and inspire confidence. Kenyan politicians generally are imbued with a sense of superiority and have contempt for the courts. The arrogance of the Executive is such that court decisions it considers adverse are not respected. Instead, judges and magistrates are lambasted, and the public is encouraged to join the chorus. The AG has done nothing to stem this tide. Mwamu is advocate of the High Court of Kenya and Past President of East Africa Law Society              