After outmanoeuvring her illiterate father three times by the age
of 18 to escape his plans to make her a child bride, Peris Tobiko decided the
only way to protect other Maasai girls in Kenya from harmful traditions was to
become a leader. She made national headlines when she was elected to Parliament in
2013 — the first woman from her conservative Maasai community to win a seat — despite
elders performing a death curse on anyone who dared vote for her.  “When I was growing up, I was just thinking: ‘How do I get to
defend the girl child?” 48-year-old Tobiko told the Thomson Reuters Foundation,
seated in the leafy garden of her family home in Nairobi. “For me, it became the drive ... Women don’t have a say and I
thought I could become a voice and encourage others to come out and speak.” She campaigned tirelessly to win a second term in the August 8
General Election as an MP for Kajiado East, where the dusty plains on the
southern outskirts of Nairobi are rapidly urbanising. Her convoy of four-by-fours kicked up clouds of dust as she sped
between schools, farms and rallies, urging voters to reelect her and President
Uhuru Kenyatta for another five years. A Supreme Court ruling on September 1 annulled Kenyatta’s
re-election and ordered a fresh contest, now scheduled for October 26. Regally seated under a blue and white tent, Tobiko clapped and
smiled as men carrying traditional wooden sticks called on the crowd to vote
for her and women in colourful Maasai beaded jewellery danced and sang songs of
praise.  THICK SKIN Her
next dream is to become Kajiado’s governor in 2022, an influential position
with responsibility for basic healthcare, early education, local roads and
other infrastructure. Kenya has among the lowest female political representation in the
region, as women have struggled to make gains in the face of violence,
intimidation and sexism. Women hold about 22 per cent of seats in Parliament since the
August election, up from 19 per cent in 2013, according to figures from the
Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU), but these are mostly in nominated, rather than
elected, positions. Like most Kenyan politicians, Tobiko is accompanied by an armed
bodyguard and pays for extra security at public functions because of fierce
competition for the Sh1,000,000 a month job. “It definitely needs a lady who has prepared herself to grow a
thick skin,” she said, describing how her friend, Flora Terah, was abducted and
tortured in 2007 when she stood for Parliament. Tobiko’s two daughters were beaten up in their college car park
after her 2013 victory by a group of young men who told them: “Your mother
should not come for our seat.” “It was terrible,” she said, adding that one daughter still has
back pain as a result. “It has really traumatised them.” But it has not deterred her. “If I shy away, then how else do we encourage other women?” she
asked. “It’s a cause I believe in and somebody must do it.”  AMBITION Tobiko’s
determination was clear from a young age. When her father first tried to marry
her off, aged 13, she ran away and got older women in the community to report
him to the police. “It was not easy but I think it helped to shape a lot of my
thinking, trying to make a difference in the life of children in that
community,” she said, laughing that she almost became the fourth wife of a
polygamous old man who is now her constituent. Tobiko’s ambition was also fuelled by the wish to protect her
mother, who risked being cast out of her home by her in-laws for failing to
produce a male heir after her husband died. Being a mother to four daughters was as shameful as being barren,
she said, as “girls are not considered to be children”. “I felt she needed either a boy or somebody who will act in that
capacity,” said Tobiko, who dresses traditionally in Maasai embroidered regalia
with closely shaven hair at her rallies. “I knew I had to go to school, I had to work hard, to make a
difference in her life.” They lived together with her father’s second wife, who bore him 10
children, one of whom is Kenya’s powerful Director of Public Prosecutions. CURSED Tobiko’s
father only abandoned his plan to marry her off when she joined the University
of Nairobi to study political science — and she met a husband of her own
choosing, a banker. After working for the government’s pension fund, she ran for Parliament
in 2007 but came third. The second time around in 2013, Maasai elders held a ceremony to
curse her when she won the party primaries. “The elders came and said: ‘She will die ... Even those who vote
for her, they will die’,” she recalled. But the younger generation defied them. “They told their fathers: ‘We are ready to die with her so let’s
see if your curses will work ... We are tired of the male leaders and so we
want to try a different direction.'” Some of the elders who cursed her are now her biggest supporters
because of her track record, she said. Education has been her priority, with her constituency budget
focused on building and upgrading schools and paying bursaries to keep girls in
secondary school. “I think it is the one single factor that can change society,” she
said. “It’s the long-term solution to all those harmful traditions.” At puberty, Maasai girls traditionally undergo female genital
mutilation (FGM) to remove their external genitalia, before being taken out of
school to become wives and mothers. “It’s like they are less human,” said Tobiko, who was cut at the
age of 10, describing how many girls die from profuse bleeding or during
childbirth as a result of FGM. She is glad the practice is declining, partly as a result of her
own rebellious hunger for education as a girl. “Some (parents) are saying: ‘Now you see a girl can become
anything in this life if you give them the opportunity.” "(Girls)
inbox me and they say: 'Mum, keep on going, you are our mentor' ... That gives
me the courage to continue and the energy to go on."  