National Resistance Movement principals Raila Odinga, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang'ula stayed home yesterday to boycott the fresh presidential election. The opposition chiefs kept their promise not to take part in the poll if the IEBC did not initiate electoral reforms to weed out Jubilee operatives at the commission. They also wanted Al Ghurair stopped from printing ballot papers and the KIEMS kits audited. The fourth principal, Kalonzo Musyoka, was still in German. "Clearly, there is a low voter turnout, even in their strongholds,
and this is compounded by the fact that it now vindicates everybody that
the IEBC was being forced into an election,” Mudavadi said. Raila and Musalia spent the day in their Nairobi homes monitoring the developments. Kalonzo is expected in the country anytime and was said to be closely monitoring the developments. Suna MP Junet Mohamed said he joined Raila for lunch. “In the morning he was reading and the afternoon he was following the activities of the day,” he said. “He did what he asked NASA supporters to do—to stay home.” Mudavadi said, “The legitimacy of this process is completely out of the line.” Wetang'ula spent the day with his ageing parents in Bungoma. “I thank the media for showing the world what transpired on this day,
that Kenyans refused to take part in a sham election where the winner
is predetermined by a computer,” the Bungoma senator said. “I can tell you confidently in Bungoma, Vihiga, Busia, Kakamega and any
other county here that the turnout could not exceed five per cent.” The opposition termed the election a total flop and warned President Uhuru Kenyatta against imposing himself on Kenyans. “I call upon Uhuru to get out of the closet and join hands with all
of us to put back the country where it belongs by looking at the 2010
Constitution and the arrangement of the Executive in the Constitution,”
Wetang'ula said. On September 1 the Supreme Court nullified the August 8 presidential election, citing illegalities and irregularities. It ordered a fresh election held within 60 days. The opposition demanded electoral reforms before a new election was conducted, but Jubilee and the IEBC remained adamant. This forced NASA to pull out, saying it would not take part in the election and endorse a flawed process. “You can wear the crown but be unable to rule the country,” Wetang'ula said. Junet said the turnout was low with Jubilee strongholds at 30 percent and NASA strongholds less than 5 percent. “The elections happened today is a no-confidence gesture to Jubilee that they should wake to know that Kenyans are tired of them,” NASA said they will call Kenyans together under article one–Sovereign of the people- to restructure the country.