While many Kenyans fear Thursday’s election rerun will provoke serious trouble, foreign investors are cautiously confident that the country’s debt can ride out the crisis, although they remain hesitant about local stocks. Their base scenario is that the vote can conclude largely smoothly. However, given that Kenya’s external debt is rated B+ but trading at levels more akin to bonds with ratings two notches lower, this means assets have already adjusted to the uncertainty and any negative surprises may have less of an impact. And Nairobi’s Sh154 billion ($1.5 billion) stand-by facility deal with the International Monetary Fund provides additional comfort. “In the very, very near term ... with the ruling we had in September, the period of uncertainty was extended to up until this point,” said Diana Amoa, portfolio manager at JP Morgan Asset Management. “But the outlook going forward - once we get past this period - should be a positive one.” For funds active in Africa and across frontier markets - a sub-set of riskier, smaller developing countries - the Sh5.6 trillion ($55 billion) Kenyan economy has been a firm part of their portfolios. The country’s Sh283.25 billion ($2.75 billion) in dollar-denominated bonds maturing in 2019 form part of major emerging market debt benchmarks and frontier indexes. Year-to-date, Kenyan dollar bonds have chalked up solid returns of more than 12 per cent compared with nearly 9 per cent on the index. However, the political stand-off has blunted economic growth in Kenya, which has been largely stable since the violence a decade ago. Kenyan debt has still underperformed its peers, said Gabriele Foa, a strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. He noted that yield premiums over US debt had not narrowed as much as those on other sub-Saharan debt. “When you look at the spreads with Angola, Ghana, Nigeria, Zambia, that has been widening over this year,” said Foa, who has an “overweight” rating on Kenya’s dollar bonds. “We saw a compression in line with the region, but Kenya is definitely lagging.” While the Nairobi Stock Exchange All Share Index has risen around 17 per cent since the start of the year in dollar terms, the gains fall well short of the 30 percent jump across emerging equities more broadly. “Foreign investors have been generally in wait-and-see mode with some net selling at the margin,” said Hasnain Malik, head of equity research at Exotix Capital.