NASA will reconsider its stand if proper consultations for the repeat election take place, Raila Odinga said after his meeting with IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati on Thursday. Raila said Chebukati invited him to the meeting that he noted was different from the one that was to take place at Serena Hotel at 2.30pm. The electoral agency boss cancelled the latter meeting saying candidates will have to agree on when they want to meet. Raila has said he is open to talks, which should not be about a coalition government, while Uhuru said on Wednesday that he is not interested in telling the commission what to do. Read: IEBC cancels meeting on Uhuru-Raila dialogue Also read: Uhuru snubs vote crisis meeting, presses ahead with campaign Speaking to journalists outside Anniversary Towers in Nairobi, Raila said he is willing to consider participating in the fresh election should the commission meet his demands. "If proper consultations are done, proper reforms carried out and fears addressed we will reconsider," he said. Among the Opposition's demands are for IEBC CEO Ezra Chiloba to resign and for ballot papers printer Al Ghurair and KIEMS kits supplier OT-Morpho not to be contracted. Raila, who met Chebukati for about 50 minutes, asked the chairman to postpone the vote set for October 26 after his assertion that he could not guarantee a credible poll. Chebukati said on Wednesday that he could not guarantee this and cited interference from politicians and threats of violence against his colleagues. More on this: It's hard to guarantee free election, IEBC won't tolerate threats - Chebukati Raila said the resignation of IEBC commissioner Roselyn Akombe and the statement by Chebukati vindicated their position. "We say that the revelations from Akombe and the chairman basically confirm our fears and reasons for pulling out and it's now clear that there will be no free election." Raila said they pulled out of the presidential election but commissioners insisted that their names remain on the ballot. "The commissioners insisted that our names remain for no reason. This is strange because we had written formally withdrawing from the process." The NASA leader said Chebukati will get back to him after meeting Uhuru next Monday. NASA chief Campaigner Musalia Mudavadi (Amani Natioanl Congress) said Chebukati and Akombe should explain to Kenyans who is interfering with the electoral system. "What we should be asking is who is behind the interference. Akombe knows who is behind the excessive interference...it's not NASA." Akombe on Wednesday took a swipe at the international community for backing a "deeply flawed" electoral system. She further denied claims that she was a mole for the Opposition party. More on this: Akombe cries for Kenya, chides countries for backing 'deeply flawed' system