It is now out in the open. Very serious allegations have been made about the report prepared by the Supreme Court registrar, Esther Nyaiyaki, for the presidential petition, and which was the basis of nullification of the reelection of President Uhuru Kenyatta. It has been alleged that the report was prepared on the basis of forged documents. This is potentially the most earthshaking crisis to occur not only in Kenya’s Judiciary, but in any democracy worldwide. If the Supreme Court annulled the victory of a properly elected president in a supposed democracy on false evidence, the ramifications are going to be deep and far-reaching. These claims are not being made by idle characters with nothing better to do. The claims were first made by Supreme Court judge Njoki Ndungu, who, in her dissenting judgment, said she had actually reviewed the evidence presented by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission and found that the disputed forms had been signed, were originals and contained no illegalities and irregularities. She accused her fellow judges of not having gone through the evidence presented, and, instead, relied on the registrar’s report. Shortly thereafter, a petitioner by the name Rashid Mohammed went to court, asking that the registrar be investigated for presenting a doctored report. Director of Public Prosecutions Keriako Tobiko put together a multi-disciplinary team to undertake investigations on this matter. IEBC CEO Ezra Chiloba, it now emerges, was questioned by detectives from this team for over six hours. According to press reports, Chiloba said the documents relied on to prepare the report by the registrar were “starkly different” from what the IEBC had deposited in court as evidence. In other words, they were forged. The first thing to note about all these claims is that the normally noisy NASA crowd has been very silent on this matter. Indeed, nobody has come out to outrightly deny them, including the Judiciary itself. One would have expected Chief Justice David Maraga to immediately convene a crisis meeting of the Judicial Service Commission and institute a probe to get to the bottom of this matter. The Chief Justice has positioned himself as a stickler for the rule of law and order, and an absolute defender of judicial integrity. So far, nothing has been heard from him. What is worse is that two of his colleagues, who formed part of the majority decision, Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu and Justice Isaac Lenaola, are facing another petition seeking their removal over judicial misconduct. The petitioner alleged the two were in contact with NASA lawyers during the entire duration of the presidential petition, and provided damning evidence, including telephone conversations, which purports to demonstrate inappropriate contact. These cases have the potential of leaving the Judiciary badly damaged, and its reputation in tatters. It thus behooves the Chief Justice to move with speed and order a thorough investigation into these two critical matters. He cannot continue being silent on a matter of such grave national importance. The ball is squarely in his court. He must allow the team of detectives full access to his officers and the documents they need to establish the truth. The circus that the country is being treated to instead is very unfortunate. The Judiciary is taking the team of detectives that wants to question the registrar round on a wild goose chase. Chief Registrar Anne Amadi asked the EACC to seek a court order from the Supreme Court to question Nyaiyaki. Indeed, the picture beginning to emerge is one where the Judiciary is desperately trying to shield Nyaiyaki from any accountability on this matter. Why so? In matters of criminal liability, surely, every Kenyan is subject to the rule of law, and must answer summons by investigating officers, especially where criminal liability is involved. This is a matter of great public interest. Nyaiyaki herself has written to the Chief Justice seeking to be protected against investigation. What does the registrar have to worry about if she did the right thing? The Law Society of Kenya is about to get sucked in big time into this circus. The president of LSK, Isaac Okero, wrote a unilateral and highly partisan letter to the EACC, asking them to stop investigations into the registrar. What hypocrisy! One would have expected that the LSK would be on the frontline demanding investigations to get the truth in the interest of justice. This is the only way that the country can be assured the Supreme Court did not commit what President Uhuru termed a “monstrous injustice” against him. The LSK should demand that Chief Justice Maraga immediately institute a probe into all the very serious claims made against his colleagues and the registrar. Short of this, his credentials stand to be badly dented, especially if the ongoing investigations prove the allegations to be true. This is a very simple matter: Did Nyaiyaki use forged documents to prepare her report? If so, why, and who provided the “alternative” documents and through which route? Inevitably, the truth will come out. Chief Justice Maraga needs to ensure that he finds himself on the correct side of history when that finally happens. And time is running out.    Kaara is a lecturer at University of Nairobi                      