Three gangsters suspected to have murdered two police officers in Kayole estate, Nairobi city, were on Saturday gunned down by the flying squad in Murang’a county. A family of three was caught up in the crossfire that lasted for five hours after the gangsters broke into their home to hide after they were overpowered. Murang’a county police commander Naomi Ichami confirmed the three gangsters fled to a hideout at Kenol town after committing the heinous act. She said the thugs also stole guns from the two officers and were tracked to the town through their phones. Ichami noted that the building that they were staying in was strategically placed and that the thugs were able to see police officers approaching before opening fire. Police officers from the flying squad and the special crimes unit returned fire after which the gangsters broke into the family’s home. According to Ichami, the family that included a man, his wife and a toddler were however not harmed. “After they broke into the home, we were forced to strategize on how to get to them and got some officers from our specialised Recce unit who were able to access the home and neutralise the suspects,” she said. She said the officers managed save the family, recovering two guns, a pistol and an AK 47. Ichami said the pistol had been stolen from one of the two police officers murdered at Kayole whose letter of appointment was also found at the scene. Ichami said the AK 47 had also been stolen from another officer murdered at Kibichoi in Kiambu a few in August while on patrol. He said both the guns and magazines will all be taken for analysis. Ichami noted that the gangsters were in a larger group and warned that the rest would be sought and apprehended with time. The police boss also added that the thugs had stayed at the building for weeks before they were tracked down. “Am urging the people of Murang’a to ensure they know their neighbors and the kind of work they do. If they suspect anything, they should find a senior police officer and make a report,” she added. She said a motorcycle that is suspected to have been the thugs’ mode of transport was also found in the building. She said two of the gangsters were among the most wanted criminals in Nairobi while one seemed to be a new member. Read:Cops gun down 7 suspected thugs, say they killed 2 officers in Kibichoi, Kiambu Also read:Four suspected robbers shot dead in Kisumu, AK47 recovered