Squatters in the Nguu Tatu area, Kisauni constituency, want an investor to run for MCA because “he has our interests at heart”. The investor, Dr Aref Assadi, the chair of International Horizons Organization for Relief and Development, has overseen the establishment of a clinic, mosque, three boreholes and is planning to build a primary school. The projects are funded by the United Arab Emirates Red Crescent, and the Canadian government through a Canadian organization, and have uplifted the lives of 5,000 residents. On Saturday, Assadi said the latest Sief Barhom Elkaabi Clinic, donated by Sief Barhom Elkaabi, will help 5,000 residents get quality healthcare. clinic kilometres away “The nearest health centre from here is 10km away. We have seen pregnant women give birth on the way. We hope this is the end of such things,” Alice Juma, a resident, said. Assadi said he does not have interest in local politics. The Nguu Tatu area is in Mtopanga ward, whose MCA is ODM’s Lucy Chizi. Assadi is from the UAE and it will be a tall order for him to vie for any political seat in the country. For him to vie for any seat in Kenya, he will have to apply to be a Kenyan citizen. “We only provide relief and development. Nothing else,” said Assadi. The Nguu Tatu area sits on a crown land, which the squatters say was under lease, but they ‘reclaimed’ it when the lease period ended a few years ago. In January, the area was a battleground between police and the squatters over a 60-acre piece of land which Bandari Sacco lays claim to. Bandari Sacco says it bought the land in 2011 from Hussein Dairy Limited, which owns 314 acres in the area. The squatters, however, said Hussein Dairy Limited gave them the land. On Saturday, Nguu Tatu community chairman Martin Chiponda said the construction of the clinic was a sign of goodwill from the investor, the county and national government. “We thank all of them for the clinic. Now we ask that the county government provides us qualified doctors and drugs for the clinic,” he said. Assadi said, “We will hand over the clinic to the county government to operate. We have only put up the structure.” The clinic, which will have a maternity wing, has cost close to Sh2 million.    