Kenyan Premier League (KPL) sides Nakumatt FC and Zoo Kericho FC yesterday won a major reprieve after the Court of Appeal temporarily suspended a decision blocking them from completing their matches. Judges Philip Waki, William Ouko and Kathurima M’inoti gave the over 100 players a reason to smile about, after they allowed them back to Kenya Premier League pending hearing and determination of the suit. The orders were issued after the two teams said barring them from completing the matches will grossly disadvantaged them in their quest to finish in good positions and avoid relegation. The High Court recently ordered the KPL to revert to its initial 16-team format following a successful case filed by veteran soccer administrator Sam Nyamweya who told court the 18-team set-up had crippled the sport . Zoo and Nakumatt, who finished outside the KPL promotion bracket during the 2016 National Super League (NSL) campaign, had been elevated by the chairman of Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Nick Mwendwa. So far, 25 rounds of matches have been played in the 18-team format. In his judgment on September 1, Justice John Mativo said the KPL shall consist the 14 KPL teams which qualified for sporting merits on the field during last year’s season plus the two highest ranked clubs at the end of 2016 season in the FKF’s National Super League. However, being aggrieved by the decision, Nakumatt and Zoo filed an application at the Appeal Court, saying the decision was unfair and wrong. Through their advocate Ken Ochieng, they argued that some of the prayers will be locked out of the KPL best players and top scores honours and the national team, Harambee stars scheduled to play in the October 2 -10 Fifa International matches due to their imminent inactivity. Moreover, the teams argued that the 2017 Kenya football season in all 3 tiers of the FKF National Leagues have reached their penultimate stages, and stopping them from playing would leave them without a league. The lawyer also said he was apprehensive that best players who ought to receive recognition at various categories during the games will have to be sent away despite having participate in the past fixtures. Nyamweya had asked the court to determine whether the FKF/KPL agreement dated September 24, 2015—providing for only16 teams to play during the 2017 season—is a legally binding and enforceable contract. He had also sought to find out from the court whether the contentious club licensing regulations published by FKF are legitimate. Justice Mativo said the post season regulations were in violations of the agreement by parties and therefore unlawful.