The much-anticipated Supreme Court ruling on the constitutionality of the mandatory death sentence for capital offenders will be both historic and controversial in equal measure.  Historic because the offence of murder and the attendant death penalty have been in existence for more than a century: 70 years of colonialism and 54 years of independence. And controversial because of sharp divisions between those seeking to have it abolished and those defending it. The Supreme Court’s verdict will be the final say over the matter. The ruling was due in April but is yet to be delivered.   DEATH PENALTIES COMMUTED The mandatory death penalty was generally bequeathed on all former British colonies, as stated under the Common Law of England, as the “penalty of murder”. Under those laws, there was only one sentence that could be judicially pronounced upon a defendant convicted of murder: death sentence. Kenya, like many others, did not review her penal code after attaining Independence to shake off some of the laws that could be retrogressive. Different High Court and Court of Appeal judges have issued different judgments on various cases challenging constitutionality of the penalty. And the court at the pinnacle of Kenya’s judiciary will be ruling on death sentence, a practice that was not widespread in the country in the pre-colonial era and that was officially introduced in 1893. Although the sentence has remained in the penal code, the last time a convict was hanged was July 1987, when Kenya Air Force senior private Hezekiah Ochuka was executed for overthrowing retired President Daniel Moi and ruling Kenya for four hours in the country’s first and last successful coup. Death row convicts still wait for the never-arriving hangman indefinitely, until the heads of state occasionally commute their sentences to life imprisonment. In October last year, President Uhuru Kenyatta commuted 2,747 of them to life imprisonment, while retired President Mwai Kibaki commuted 4,000 in December 2009. Unfortunately, no one in Kenya has ever raised the issue of whether the delay in executing prisoners who have been on death row for a long time is inconsistent with constitutional provisions. The issue is not raised even in the case before the Supreme Court. Several High Court and Court of Appeal judges have held different opinions over the matter, and criminal and human rights lawyers are equally divided on the constitutionality of the penalty.   HOW CHALLENGE AROSE On July 30, 2010, appellate judges Onyango Otieno, Philip Waki and Rianga Omolo dramatically escalated a case challenging death sentence to a court that did not exist to determine appropriate action on a murder convict who had challenged the sentence. “In all the circumstances of this case, the order that commends itself to us is to remit the case to the superior court with the direction that the court records the prosecution’s as well as the appellant’s submissions before deciding on the sentence that befits the appellant. It is so ordered,” the judges said. There was no Supreme Court at the time, as it was established by the August 2010 constitution, which was adopted on August 4, 2010, five days after the ruling, and the Court of Appeal was the highest court before then. Godfrey Mutiso wanted the court to declare that imposition of a mandatory death sentence upon him was arbitrary and unconstitutional, and the execution of the same would amount to an inhuman and degrading punishment and arbitrary deprivation of life in breach of the constitution. “The appellant may well be deserving of the death penalty or life imprisonment in view of the gravity of the offence committed and the circumstances of the deceased’s death, or a lesser penalty, but then again, making such findings would be arbitrary,” the judges said. Mutiso was handed a death sentence in 2008 by Justice Joseph Sergon for murder of Patrick Gachuki in 2004. He is among 4,000 death row convicts whose sentences were commuted to life imprisonment by retired President Mwai Kibaki in December 2009, and he wants the Supreme Court to declare the capital punishment unconstitutional. The judges, however, said human society is constantly evolving and so the law, which all civilised societies must live under, must evolve in tandem. “A law that is caught up in a time-warp would soon find itself irrelevant and would be swept into the dustbins of history,” they stated. Although the death penalty was initially only a reserve for the convicts of murder offence, today, four offences result in the maximum penalty: murder and attempted murder, treason, oathing for crimes by proscribed criminal outfits, robbery with violence and attempted robbery with violence. The case before the apex court is the most serious challenge made on the penalty that has left legal minds divided in the middle.   WHAT THE LAW SAYS The offence of murder and the mandatory death sentence as the punishment for it are provided for in the Penal Code under sections 203 and 204. Section 203 says any person who, with malicious aforethought, causes death of another person by unlawful act or omission, is guilty of murder. Consequently, section 204 says any person convicted of murder shall be sentenced to death. Two of the Supreme Court judges, Chief Justice David Maraga and Justice JB Ojwang, will be revisiting a matter they have ruled over in the past. On October 18, 2013, while a Court of Appeal judge, Maraga and justices John Mwera and Roselyne Nambuye dismissed an appeal challenging the same sentence. Two death row convicts both jailed for robbery with violence had filed the appeal. Lawyer Timothy Bryant argued that the death sentence handed down to each appellant contravened Article Six of the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights. The Article says in countries that have not abolished the death penalty, death sentence may be imposed only for the most serious crimes — genocide — in accordance with the law in force at the time of the commission of the crime. “Every human being has the inherent right to life. This right shall be protected by law. No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his life,” the Article says. But the judges cited Article 26 [ 3 ] of the constitution.  It says a person shall not be deprived of life intentionally, except to the extent authorised by this constitution or other written law. “And the written law is Section 296 [2] of the Penal Code. So all in all, a death sentence is not unconstitutional. Kenya has not abolished the death sentence and so the death sentence meted out here to the appellants is not contrary to the cited Convention,” the judges ruled.   18-MONTH REFORM DEADLINE A three-judge bench, chaired by Justice Jessie Lesiit, principal judge in the High Court’s Criminal Division, was faced with the same legal conundrum on September 15 last year, in determining a petition by 12 capital offenders challenging the sentence. The petitioners wanted the penalty declared cruel and inhumane. The judges, including Justice Luka Kimaru and justice Stella Mutuku, held that the death sentence is not a cruel, inhuman and degrading punishment. But they said sections of the Penal Code that define robbery with violence are so “imprecise, broad and vague in scope” that they do not muster the constitutional threshold of sufficient precision to enable an accused person adequately prepare and defend themselves if charged under them. “Article 26 [ 3 ] of the constitution specifically provides that where the death sentence is provided under any other law, it shall not amount to the deprivation of the right to life,” they said. “However, we hold that a person convicted of a capital offence cannot be sentenced to serve a death sentence as a matter of course without the court considering the mitigating circumstances and other statutory pre-sentencing requirements.” They said it will amount to a violation of accused persons’ right to fair trial if the court does not receive and consider mitigating factors and other statutory and pre-sentencing requirements. The bench directed the office of Attorney General and other state departments to make changes to the said sections of Penal Code in 18 months. The period elapses in March next year. But AG Githu Muigai moved to the highest court to seek guidance on compliance with the order.