You will recall that at the end of last month and coincident with the Supreme Court decision, the Nairobi Securities Exchange had to introduce circuit breakers after a precipitous 10 per cent slide. And on that day the Nairobi All Share closed -3.69%. That day, we all got a chance to take a look at what a ‘’cliff edge’’ looks like and ‘’cliff edge effects’’. Since then, the equity markets have been on the slide and eurobond yields have ratcheted higher. The miraculous shilling has been the best-behaved. The shilling’s resilience speaks to the gilt-edged credibility that the Central Bank has achieved with market participants. The Central Bank’s FX operations are spectacularly effective. However, what is clear is that financial indicators are blinking amber. The real economy has been in the slow lane and there is ample evidence of unexploded ordnance all over the place. The drought and the credit squeeze softened up the economy, but it is our politics which owns the ring now and has the potential to land a knock-out blow akin to the blow Mike Tyson landed on Trevor Berbick’s chin all those years ago. On Friday, @DaMina_Advisors’ October 5 report landed in my inbox, and i quote. ‘’With effectively ‘no-adults-in-charge’ Kenya country is spinning into a constitutional cul-de-sac......Without an election within the constitutionally mandated 60-day window, Kenya will enter unmarked treacherous constitutional political terrain.... President Uhuru Kenyatta is determined to stay in office, whether an election happens or not on October 26. Meanwhile the increasingly belligerent and desperate opposition remains unwilling to recognize the legitimacy of any government beyond October 26, and promises bloody mass action in the streets to forcibly eject Kenyatta from power. The country’s highest court, after delivering a historic verdict in late August to annul the last presidential poll due to irregularities, has since disappeared from the political arena’’. It’s clear now that the opposition is taking an asymmetric approach. Paul Virilio, in his book Speed and Politics, says: “The revolutionary contingent attains its ideal form not in the place of production, but in the street, where for a moment it stops being a cog in the technical machine and itself becomes a motor (machine of attack), in other words a producer of speed.’’ What does it cost to put 500 people on the streets? I venture $10.00 a head max. $5,000.00 versus an economic deterioration of at least 100x is an outstanding example of the efficacy of this asymmetric strategy. Go and compare the street protests in Togo and you will note our street protests belong in the theatre. The opposition has resolved not to participate in the election, unless its “irreducible minimum” demands are met. Two scheduled rallies at the Coast this weekend were cancelled because Mombasa Governor Ali Joho is out of the country [probably could not get out fast enough]. What is clear is that the advantage of incumbency in fact accelerates in this round two of the election. Therefore, I expect the opposition to boycott the election entirely. And that the strategy of tension will be maintained via degrading and denigrating the entire process. Market participants need to model this scenario because this is the direction of travel. ‘’Essentially Kenya faces a very uncertain 21 days’’ @DaMina_Advisors. Aly-Khan is a financial analyst