Mobile phone operator, Safaricom has forked out Sh2 million sponsorship for the 9th edition of Ndalat Gaa cross-country championship planned for October 14 in Nandi County. The race was founded by the Late Athletics Kenya (AK) President Isaiah Kiplagat in 2008 to nurture young talent and breed world beaters.  This year’s theme will be running for cancer awareness in memory of the founder.  Safaricom’s brand assets and sponsorship manager, Angeline Ngunjiri said the firm was delighted to partner with the event for the ninth year running.   Olympic marathon champion Eliud Kipchoge was named brand ambassador for the event and is looking forward to the event.  “The late Kiplagat achieved his core objective with this race because most athletes who started their running careers at the event are now accomplished runners who have made our country proud. If it were not for visionaries like him with the support of corporates like Safaricom, I would not have made it this far in my career,” said Kipchoge.  Mosop Constituency Development Fund (CDF) added Sh500,000 towards the event’s kitty.  Other sponsors include Nike, Kenya Seed Company, Kenya Power Lighting Company, Kass Media, National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF), Amaco, and St Luke Orthopedic Hospital.  There will be ten race categories at the event and they include 7-9 ,10-12, 13-15, 16-18 and secondary school category. Others are senior women, senior men 45-50, 51 and above and 60 above.  Nandi County Governor Stephen Arap Sang, said the county has earmarked sports as a pillar and a key driver of its administration and is building two stadiums—Kipchoge Keino and Nandi Hills. Sang added that they want to build a sports residential training camp to cater for all athletes. “As a county, we need to diversity our sports portfolio.  We have a lot of athletic talent but we are also looking at other sports disciplines like volleyball, rugby and football,” added Sang.  He said he is delighted to be associated with the Ndalat Gaa cross country event. “We are happy to be associated with this event.  It has grown in leaps and bounds since 2008 and we are asking fans to turn up in large numbers and make it a success this year,” added Sang.