About 12 under 20 national women’s team players are yet to report to camp in Machakos ahead of the first leg match of the second round of the FIFA World Cup qualifier away to Ghana next weekend. The 12 players are goalkeeper Diana Tembesi, defensive trio of Mary Khamete, Leah Cherotich and Foscah Nashivanda, midfield duo of Linda Nyangweso and Sharon Zainabu and attackers Martha Amunyolete, Monicah Paul, Jentrix Shikangwa, Tumaini Waliaula, Josephine Imungu and Marion Analo. Most of these players are  drawn from secondary schools and clubs which feature in the Premier League and are yet to be released. Harambee Stars assistant coach Musa Otieno who has been drafted in the technical bench remained optimistic the players will join the camp soon. Otieno said Ghana have been to World Cup before and therefore they know a thing or two. “Ghana is a strong team who have been to the World Cup before, but  if we can have good preparation and  a good game plan and go to West Africa  record positive result away then  come back home and do our best then we can be at a better place,” said Otieno. However, 18 players under the stewardship of Carolyne Ajowi have upped their training ahead of second round of the FIFA World Cup qualifier. At the same time, seven players who played a part in the 4-3 aggregate second-round win against Ethiopia in September will not make the Ghanaian trip since they are set to sit their KCSE exams. They are Sheryl Angachi, Cynthia Shilwatso, Maureen Khakasa, Cynthia Akinyi, Sharon Adhiambo, Mercy Airo and Vivian Nasaka. Provisional squad: Goalkeepers: Lilian Awuor, Judith Osimbo, Diana Tembesi, Brenda Achieng. Defenders: Lucy Akoth, Wincate Kaari, Foscah Nashivanda, Leah Cherotich, Veronica Awino, Harriet Osilwa, Mary Khamete. Mid-fielders: Diana Wacera, Corazone Aquino, Linda Nyongesa, Joan Akoth, Sylvia Kapera, Beverline Achieng, Diana Hashina,Sharon Zainabu. Attackers: Martha Amunyolete, Rachel Muema, Monicah Paul, Jentrix Shikangwa, Tumaini Waliaula, Josephine Imungu, Marion Analo, Rachel Muema, Lilian Mmboga, Stella Anyango, Quinter Atieno and Joy Kinglady.