NASA coalition on Saturday condemned incidences where police killed three people following anti-IEBC demos. Siaya senator James Orengo said the recent killings especially in Luo Nyanza is a classic case of  international crimes against humanity. He said the current ban by acting Interior CS Fred  Matiang'i and ID Joseph Boinett is a recipe for committing genocide. Orengo said so far police are still struggling to find a rationale for the killings. "One senior officer says the three were shot while trying to invade a police station. Another says they were looting a shop while another says they attacked a police officer in the course of the protests," Orengo said. He said the NASA coalition has called on IPOA, Amnesty International, IMLU and other credible agencies with capacity to investigate to move with speed to Bondo and get the facts on how the three unarmed demonstrators were killed. He said several other people have been hospitalised with conditions ranging from serious gun shot wounds to extreme tear gas intoxication. The highlights from Bondo, Kisumu, Migori and Homa Bay capture a worrying trend of police using disproportionate force on demonstrators particularly in Luo Nyanza,": he said. Orengo added, "By sheer numbers alone it is clear the police are using a different standard in responding to demonstrators in Nyanza and other areas. They want to turn Luo Nyanza into a  Kosovo of Kenya". Orengo further said despite the killings and maiming, the police are also engaged in a systematic plot of looting and destruction of property. He said several police officers have been spotted in the demos armed with a panga in addition to his regular firearm. Could these looters be policemen operating under cover?, are they pro-state mercenaries, police are not known to be armed with pangas' he said. Orengo said the state appears to have unveiled a policy of profiling NASA supporters and other protestors. "This policy is being executed by Interior CS Fred Matiang'i and IG Joseph Boinett. Why would they for example ban NASA accessing CBD and protect the so called Nairobi Business community," Orengo paused.