      It’s not giving away too much at
the top that the title dance of Peter Kimani’s splendid new novel is a raucous, crowd-sourced, snaking locomotion performed nightly in the boisterous confines of the Jakaranda
Hotel in Nakuru, during the tense months around Kenya’s 1963 transition to
independence. And I right away also reveal that I am Kimani’s work colleague,
and have indeed come to praise and not bay at him. The Dance of the Jakaranda’s incessant beat carries us through nearly
seven decades of Kenya’s colonial history into the early days of freedom that
the novel covers. The pounding of 600 miles of railway into the colony’s — at
least to the British imperialists — “virgin” interior is at the heart of
Kimani’s tale, accompanied all the while by soundscapes of music and drumming, the
score to Kimani’s narrative.   What the Kikuyu people in their own
language dubbed the “iron snake” — and what the British, who drove people to work
through the midday sun in [eventually] self-aware irony, christened the “Lunatic
Express” — impels clashes of cultures and characters that reveal occasional moral
strength, and rather more often, moral lapses. The novel’s present focuses on Rajan,
a locally born nightclub singer of Indian descent (“a brown man in a
black world … under white rule”), who drives the Jakaranda Hotel’s adoring crowds — and
particularly, we learn, its young ladies, later, backstage — into ecstasy with
his mugithi, the “train dance” that
recounts stories he heard from his grandfather, Babu Salim, about the building
of the great railway. When an unknown lavender-scented woman [Mariam, we learn]
fleetingly kisses Rajan during a power outage at the Jakaranda, the carefree
Casanova is soundly smitten. This kiss in the dark eventually illumes filaments
of decades-old events that inexorably converge, matters we discover to be as intertwined
in perfidies and hypocrisies as the railway runs straight and true. But to arrive at the doors of the rowdy
Jakaranda at the cusp of Kenya’s Independence, we must first ride the iron
snake together, from its head at Mombasa on the Indian Ocean, where Babu Salim
landed in 1897, recruited to work on the railway from another corner of
Britain’s Empire, in the Punjab. He almost immediately comes into conflict over
labour conditions with the British official charged with building the railway, Ian
Edward McDonald, known to his non-white workers simply as “Master”. McDonald’s
sidekick is the missionary Rev Richard Turnbull, whose mission to save
native souls is at first tolerated by the ex-solider McDonald only as far as it
serves the greater imperial mission. None of the three, we will find,
are quite what we expect. Issues of identity and paternity permeate the plot’s
complexities, which at moments skirt the edge of contrivance. There are
flamingo-darkened skies and injustices and infidelities that harden the
protagonists’ hearts. Babu’s convoluted dream of flight, the backstory of a
tempestuous curse, and the horn blown by his resourceful wife, Fatima, which might
just keep it at bay, can be hard to keep in context. But this multi-dimensional
plotting seems by intent. As Kimani’s unnamed narrator occasionally reminds us,
conjuring the complexities of the multi-cultural colonial creation that is
Kenya is no easy feat. Babu becomes a man of many tongues as the railway drives
deeper into Kenya across the lands of disparate tribes, and becomes “Kenyan” in
the process. Yet he personally suffers a tribalism imported by his “Indian”
compatriots, reflecting the imperial hubris that created nation-states
worldwide in map-drawing exercises across Europe, which has afflicted the
global south ever since. Modern Kenya is an accident of this history; developed
with the “Uganda Railway” intended to secure the Nile headwaters at Lake
Victoria — which fed Egypt, which protected the Suez Canal, which was Britain’s
access to its imperial ‘jewel in the crown’ — India. And these grand global
designs imposed from afar affected millions on the ground. “Hadithi Hadithi Paukwa?”, our narrator opens
one chapter — without translation of the traditional Swahili phrase, which would roughly
be “Story, Story… A Tale?” “This is an
invocation to confirm that the reader is still there,” the narrator tells us, “lest
one is tired of being dragged through the crooked jogs of history, trying to
untangle mysteries that never quite unfurl.” 
Kimani’s characters both shape and are buffeted by these mysteries. And despite
the disclaimer above, they are, by the book’s end, in fact, largely unfurled — although
our wish to know what became of Rajan’s lover, the fiercely independent Mariam,
is left unrequited. Historical and cultural contexts
for these “crooked jogs of history” are delivered in rich literary detail. Abuse
of state power to have its way, for example, is laid bare. Attacks on
indigenous groups to break resistance to white rule, and the new rulers’ brutal
turn against the Indian minority as Kenya headed to “big-man rule”, are
described unsparingly as the “shock and awe” of the official terror they amply
conveyed; they resonate still today: “[N]either the victim nor the villain is willing
to tell what truly happened afterward:”, Kimani writes. “[T]he motivation for
the former being to minimise the degree of hurt and loss, which intensifies at
every bout of recollection; the explanation for the latter being to disguise
the full extent to which one’s humanity is diminished by brutalising others.” Such passages command and deserve our
focused attention. But there is much that can be more easily digested. Supporting
characters are wonderfully drawn, including Jakaranda Hotel grillman Gathenji,
who deflects customers’ anger at short-weighted meat with a wit as sharp as his
carving knives. And Kimani’s descriptive and often smartly playful language, is
a delight throughout. Of Gathenji’s grill: “The flesh sizzled, its red-pink
colour turning golden brown. There was a popping sound as a kidney puffed and
burst, spewing a splash of fat that ignited a fresh flame that sprinted across
the brazier, like a shooting star on a dark night, before it went down in a
flicker.” It is quite enough to make one down the book and search out your
favourite nyama choma! “Some ancient sage counseled
the wisdom of trust the tale, not the teller,” Kimani’s narrator advises. “But the invitation here,” he adds, “is
neither trust the tale nor the teller.” In our pandemic of fake news, this is sensible
advice; we today might better seek important truths from storytellers
like Kimani than our too often compliant and compromised mass media. “Hadithi
Hadithi!”, indeed!    Thomas R.
Lansner is a member of the Distinguished Visiting Faculty at the Graduate School
of Media and Communications (GSMC) at Aga Khan University, Nairobi, and was a
correspondent of the London Observer
in East Africa, South Asia, and East Asia.  