Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi wants police to reveal the whereabouts of MCA Joachim Oketch and Francis Muga. They were were arrested by flying squad officers at the weekend for allegedly storming IEBC training sessions in Kisumu. Wandayi condemned police for resorting to kidnapping, adding that the arrests have subjected the politicians' families to trauma and worry as they are unable to reach them on phone. “It is an indication of utter desperation within Jubilee
administration. The people must resist such intimidation, oppression,
harassment and dictatorship governance,” the MP said. The ODM politician said police should stop being used to settle political wars. A senior police officer said Oketch (Kondele) and Muga were arrested for allegedly disrupting an IEBC training session last Friday. He said the suspects were booked in various polling stations in Kericho.  The DPP has called for the arrest of former deputy governor Ruth Odinga and Kisumu Senator Fred Outa in connection with the same. More on this: DPP wants Ruth Odinga, Fred Outa charged with attacking IEBC officials Nyanza regional police boss Leonard Katana when contacted referred The Star to CID boss John Gachomo whose phone went unanswered. Muga was arrested on Friday night next to Patel flats by the flying squad officers in three vehicles, two Subarus and a saloon car. Witnesses said the heavily armed officers bundled Muga inside the boot of one of the vehicles and drove him to an unknown location. Bella, his wife, said they are unable to reach him on the phone and efforts to report the matter were futile as she was turned away at Kondele and Kisumu Central police stations. “When I went to Kondele police station I was referred to Kisumu Central police station. At the station, the officers decline to record my statement immediately I mentioned the vehicles registration,” she said. Bella said Muga has not been booked to any police station in Kisumu. This comes as sources revealed that those arrested were in police custody in Kericho in Rift Valley region. “I went to Kericho to inquire and my efforts were again in vain as I was turned way. I want to appeal to our leaders to compel police to tell us where my husband was taken and his condition,” she said. Oketch was arrested at United Mall on Saturday night by flying squad officers and taken to unknown destination. This led to late night protests as his supporters barricaded the road demanding his whereabouts. The MCA was arrested last Friday but later released after a case of mistaken identity.   A young businessman only identified as Vicky has also been arrested and taken to Kericho according to those close to him. Kisumu Residents Voice Association chair Audi Ogada accused police of violating the politicians' rights. “If you take suspects to unknown destination you are subjecting their families into physiological torture and agony. It is totally unacceptable,” said Ogada. “Why do you have to cock ten guns as if the suspects were armed dangerous criminals? It is a violation of the law,” he added. Ogada further questioned the motive of the arrest noting that the registration of vehicles used by the officers was replaced immediately. He alleged that police have in Kisumu have compiled a list 100 influential people whom they want to arrested. “I have talked to Muga and he is fine. He has actually confirmed to me that he is a police station in Kericho,” said Ogada.