The National Super Alliance’s conversion into the National Resistance Movement declared by former Prime Minister Raila Odinga on Wednesday in Uhuru Park, Nairobi, could turn out to be the worst possible news for Kenya. Or NRM Kenya, as Professor Phillip Nying’uro, head of the University of Nairobi’s Department of Political Science said in the Expert Comment in the Star newspaper on Thursday, could crumble at once. NRM Kenya has yet to announce what kind of resistance movement it is going to be – violent or non-violent. If, as is most likely, it takes the path to violent resistance, it will engage in infrastructural sabotage and attacks, including murder, on the police and KDF. There will be collateral damage.   RAILA REMODELS HIMSELF AS RESISTANCE LEADER The dictionary definition of resistance movement is “a secret organization resisting authority, especially in an occupied country”. Members go underground to join resistance movements and are quickly defined by news media as “terrorists” or “freedom fighters”.  Under the headline “Kenya needs healing after disputed Uhuru-Raila battle”, the Star reported a BBC report on Thursday about the resistance movement, “Along with other National Super Alliance leaders, they read a lengthy statement in English, clearly targeting the international audience. They blamed the government for the killing of their supporters, intimidation of judges and electoral officials and also accused it of instituting a ‘dictatorship’. The speech was meant to come up with a political narrative that would give his supporters assurance that the whole campaign had not been in vain. The 72-year-old leader has essentially, once again, remodelled himself and his message. He now sees himself as leading a resistance movement against what he calls creeping authoritarianism Indeed some supporters of Uhuru have been calling on him to be a ‘benevolent dictator’ and Raila has now made the case that he is the person to stop this tide. The two leaders have rejected calls for them to meet and resolve what many see as a political problem. Thursday’s election will therefore not end but escalate the political battle between the Odinga and Kenyatta families, which has been going on since the country became independent. Raila also told supporters that ‘if there is no justice for the people, let there be no peace for the government’.” A violent resistance movement could well mean President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Second Term would see attacks on the signature projects of Jubilee’s four-and-a-half-year-long infrastructure projects such as the SGR and roads up and down the country. Dams would not be left out by a versatile armed resistance movement that receives training and arms from its international networks. It would be a term under a near-constant State of Emergency and new approaches to the war on terror. It would wreak havoc on what is left of the economy after the prolonged electioneering period of the 12th General Election. The National Security Council, military and civilian Intelligence and KDF generals must be wondering where NRM Kenya will draw its fighters and weapons, including bombs, from. KDF is already busy in Somalia against al Shabaab, an ISIS-compliant terror group that could also occasionallyjoin hands with NRM Kenya.   NIGHTMARE SCENARIO FOR SECURITY BOSSES The rise of a resistance movement in Kenya is a nightmare scenario for the national security establishment and some of the Western powers, particularly the United States. NRM Kenya could soon pose a threat to international aviation and shipping that Shabaab has not done in years of conflict. Nairobi has a large diplomatic district and expatriate community, who could almost certainly be targeted by a violent resistance organisation for kidnapping, hostage money taking and destabilizing death toll figures. Attacks on journalists and newsrooms will almost certainly follow. Raila told his wildly cheering audience that NRM Kenya would recommend what media outlets to pay attention to and which to ignore, what telcos to use and which to ignore. These threats are clear and present dangers right now. Raila completely disregarded the repeat Presidential election of Thursday October 26 and told his supporters there would be another election in about 90 days’ time.    THE POLITICS OF SECURITIZATION The politics of securitization could kick in, and the first thing that disappears is habeas corpus. Martial law could be declared in the worst affected areas. Mass arrests and imprisonment could follow. Unbelievable figures of extrajudicial killings could fill the headlines. Resistance violence opens the door to a season of atrocities on both sides. The spiral of resistance violence can break out at any time now and peacemakers will be fervently urging that Jubilee and NRM Kenya meet and hold talks. But there is no appetite for talks right now. Indeed, there appears to be no back channel diplomacy whatever, but appearances can be deceptive. Raila began his major announcement by communicating a message of greetings from his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka, who is away in Germany.  Whether Kalonzo supports NASA becoming NRM Kenya and taking the path of militancy is hugely important. He is known as a peacemaker and one of the key mediators of the Sudan Civil War. Jubilee strategists must be hoping against hope that a figure of Kalonzo’s standing breaks away from NRM Kenya and denounces violence, taking away his vote bloc.    JUBILEE COUNTER-STRATEGY Prof Nying’uro’s prediction that NRM Kenya will crumble because NASA was a mongrel entity made up of people without commitment to any ideology but grabbing power and who fundamentally do not trust each other is the kind of message that Jubilee would like to hear and will move mountains to see happen. Violent resistance is a prospect that few people would countenance and the argument that the conditions for it are not present in Kenya is persuasive indeed. Jubilee failed to divide and rule NASA when they were struggling to find a flagbearer earlier this year, so it had better succeed in making at least a couple of leaders walk away from the violent resistance narrative. Once a violent resistance begins in Kenya, it will take decades, tens of thousands of lives and the national fortune to resolve.    