    This was written in Sri Lanka, where the Indian
Ocean stretched away from our hotel to Kenya nearly 5,000 kilometres away, but
where many issues around constitutional reform ring bells for Kenyans. Indeed,
some proposed changes to their constitution are copied from or inspired by our
Constitution.      EXECUTIVE
PRESIDENCY, PARLIAMENTARY SYSTEM OR HYBRID? Sri Lanka has had a rather French system: An
executive President, but also a Prime Minister. Many French do not like it,
same with many Sri Lankans. And in Kenya, what we called the Nusu Mkate system
undermined faith in such a system.  Many Sri Lankans now want a parliamentary
system. Fewer want a presidential system. In Kenya, NASA has been pushing a
parliamentary system despite having gone for the presidential in 2010. The arguments include that a parliamentary
system is more inclusive and that direct elections of a single person as head
of government tends to be divisive. Is there not some truth in the idea that if
Kenya had moved to a parliamentary system  we might now be in a less perilous situation?
Such a system does generate one head of government in the end, but the other
prominent leaders will also probably be in Parliament, not on the outside either
ignoring Parliament or simply criticising. Identifying the leader of government
after an election is likely to be a less confrontational matter than a direct
election. The system also involves having a President with very limited powers,
ideally not strongly party political, who may be a restraining influence upon
power hungry politicians. This is the model the Sri Lankan parliamentary
proponents tend to favour. In Kenya, unfortunately, the “parliamentarians”
lost out to personal ambition.   WHAT ELECTORAL
SYSTEM? Sri Lanka has had a proportional representation
system, criticised for setting candidates of the same party against each other,
giving too much scope for political dynasties, and having little link between
electors and their representatives.  Many
are now backing a mixed member proportional (MMP) system: Sixty per cent of
members being elected for constituencies each with either one or two members
and 40 per cent taken from party lists, in a way that would ensure that overall
if a party got, say, 45 per cent of the votes it would get 45 per cent of the
seats. It’s the system in Germany and New Zealand, for example. It was recommended for Kenya by the CKRC in
2002. It is supposed to combine accountability of members with fair
distribution of seats in terms of support the parties have. It is likely to
lead to governments formed of several parties, and in a system like ours to the
President not having tight control of Parliament — and having to negotiate and
compromise — no bad thing. Sri Lankans hope that constituency MPs would be reelected
because of their performance as members, thus raising the quality of MPs.
Kenyans might be tempted to comment that this is not their experience of
constituency MPs.   ALL THE ELECTIONS AT
ONCE? Some in Sri Lanka say that to save money, all
elections should be on the same day, as in Kenya. But is it not possible that
our six-elections-all-at-the-same-time contributed to the August 8 fiasco?
Exhausted people having to count six sets of ballot papers, send the results to
two tallying centres, somehow take the ballot boxes physically to the
constituency centre, party agents interested in only one of the six exercises,
and so on?  Should we not perhaps at least split the
exercises, so that national legislatures and officers are elected on one day
and county ones on another? Or President and members of the National Assembly
(both types) on one day and the Senate (representing the counties) as well as
the governors and MCAs on another? It would need constitutional amendment.   SENATE?Sri Lankans are debating whether to have a Senate to represent the
interests of the lower levels of government, or whether it is too expensive — just
like Kenyans. And if there is to be one, how should it be composed? One
suggestion is that it should include members elected from each provincial
legislature by that legislature.  One reason the Kenyan Senate has had such bad
relations with the counties it is intended to protect is perhaps that Senators
have no connection with county governments. Suggestions during our constitution
making process that at least some Senate members should represent county
governments rather than be directly elected by the people were rejected.  Maybe our Senators would have been more
supportive of the county system, and less self-absorbed, if some such system
had been adopted.   DEVOLUTION? Devolution debates have similar themes
worldwide. In Sri Lanka we find concerns about it leading to secession, debates
about whether the principal level of devolution should be provinces or lower
levels, and whether the Constitution should recognise three levels (national,
provincial/district and local — even village).  Kenyans would probably feel their system is too
new to draw lessons. Should we be asking ourselves whether devolution has
encouraged recent language about “secession”, though?  We might warn against having too many units
with devolved powers, especially if the governmental system encourages the
heads of those governments to think of themselves as little Presidents (or
little gods). Kenyans might point out how hard it is to change once vested
interests in a system has developed.    WOMEN  There is discussion about achieving one-third
women in public office, and about whether the Constitution should use
gender-neutral language or gender inclusive language. Kenyans can tell Sri
Lankans a great deal about how not to draft a constitution to achieve
one-third: It is not good enough just to say there must be one-third.  Some women would tell them that our gender-neutral
constitutional language makes women invisible — unlike the frank use of “he or
she”, or the more forthright South African phrase “woman or man”.    APPOINTMENTS TO
OFFICES Sri Lanka currently has Constitutional Council,
which proposes members of various commissions, including the Election
Commission, which is likely to continue. It is perhaps unfortunate that a
proposal at Bomas for a body to perform a similar function for Kenya
disappeared. But non-politician Kenyans would probably not be enthusiastic
about the Sri Lankan model, which involves all politicians or their
nominees.  Or that the Council gives
several names of potential chairs to the President, who makes the final choice —
this is the model in Kenya that generated our current IEBC chair.   ROLE OF RELIGION Kenyans sensibly chose to keep the state and
religion separate, while protecting the right of every person to freedom of
conscience, religion, thought, belief and opinion.  Kenya has been fortunate that, by and large,
the leaders of all religions have got on well and often banded together in its
demands for state policy on the government. The unity of religious groups was a
key factor in the initiation of the process for a new constitution. In Sri
Lanka, the relationship between the state and religion is a highly contention
issue. Traditionally Buddhism has played a central role in state policies, and
has received considerable patronage from the government, almost always led by
Buddhists. The current Constitution acknowledges the superior position of this
religion. Hindus, and to a lesser extent, Muslims (the other two major
religions) have long been resentful of the special status of Buddhism. How the
conflict is resolved will be a key to the country’s future — especially as
religion and ethnicity coincide, rather different from the Kenyan situation.    “BORROWING” FROM
KENYA Sri Lankans must make their own constitution
according to their circumstances. But Kenyans would probably encourage them, as
they consider adopting from Kenya the right to fair administrative practice
(our Article 47),  a right to a clean and
healthy environment (Article 42), and the obligation to maintain a certain
percentage of tree cover (Article 69)1)(b)). The same would go for support for
affirmative action, to redress past injustice and marginalisation (see our Articles
27 and 56), and a broad access to courts to protect human rights (based on
South Africa and Kenya).      