Police fired teargas to disperse protesters in Kondele, Kisumu county on Monday as NASA began its countrywide demos against IEBC and proposed election laws amendment. The residents who carried a banner written "Chiloba Must Go" engaged the police in running battles as they retaliated by throwing stones at the IEBC offices.  Residents barricaded roads in the area, which is a confluence of many estates in the lakeside town, using stones. Many of the residents sang and chanted slogans as they regrouped to counter the anti-riot police. The lot planned to march to the Kisumu CBD where they were to meet their counterparts from other areas who are also taking part in the demos.  /MAURICE ALAL Last week, Kisumu residents who participated in the anti-IEBC protests were disappointed with the police for failing to use teargas on them. They said a good protest is one where they engage the cops in running battles before they are dispersed. This was not the case as the police stayed away from the largely peaceful demos staged to push for the removal of IEBC secretariat officials. This, however, did not go down well with some of the protesters who expected things to get ugly between them and the security officers. More on this: Kisumu residents upset after police fail to fire teargas in anti-IEBC demos Also read: Trade in Kisumu uninterrupted amid NASA's anti-IEBC demos NASA planned the protests for Monday and Friday every week to demand the resignation of IEBC CEO Ezra Chiloba. The coalition wants the electoral agency head of secretariat to leave office before the October 26 repeat presidential election.  However, a group trading as Nairobi Business Community which is allied to Jubilee, on Sunday said they will counter the demos. The group accused NASA leaders and their supporters of disrupting business in the CBD. "NASA people do this because they don't own any business in Nairobi," their leader Wilfred Kamau said. He said the business community has in the past borne the brunt of NASA demonstrations and "subsequent violence" in the capital. The lot said they are not ready to watch demonstrators loot their businesses in attempts to dethrone President Uhuru Kenyatta. See: [VIDEO] Jubilee and Nasa supporters headed for clash in City IEBC protest