Sibling rivalry among NASA affiliate parties is undermining its chances of clinching the Kitutu Chache South MP seat on November 7. The election was cancelled on August 8 following the death of Jubilee Party candidate Leonard Mwamba in a road accident at Nyakoe on July 14. However NASA candidates Richard Onyonka (Ford Kenya), Samuel Omwando (ODM), Andrew Maubi (Wiper) and Justus Mochoge have downplayed the fears. NASA parties lost in all Kisii county parliamentary seats due to the rivalry, according to political pundits. “If you look at the recent election, parties played a very small role in the election of MPs. The public was electing one [based] on his record in terms of vision, campaigns, clan matrix and development agenda,” Onyonka told the Star in an interview. Clannism vs fraternal feud He said the elections of Governor James Ongwae, Senator Sam Ongeri and woman representative Janet Ong’era on the ODM ticket were due to their development records. “ODM lost all MP seats in Kisii and Nyamira counties so party did not play a key role,” Onyonka said.  He ditched ODM for the Moses Wetang’ula-led Ford Kenya party. Jubilee gave their ticket to Anthony Kibagendi who defected from ODM. Jimmy Onkangi will run on the PDP ticket.  Wiper’s Maubi said the race is between him and Onyonka. “Clannism may play a bigger role than sibling rivalry,” Maubi said.  ANC’s Mochoge said, “From the August 8 election NASA performed poorly in Kisii. However, with Kitutu Chache, being an opposition zone, sibling rivalry will not work to the advantage of the Jubilee candidate.  He said, however, it is possible for NASA candidates to come together and agree with one candidate.  “If that happens, it will be a sure bet. Kitutu Chache, being cosmopolitan, has always been an opposition stronghold, unless things change dramatically ahead of the elections,” Mochoge said.  However, Onkangi, who supports NASA’s Raila Odinga, is in a fix after party leader Omingo Magara said they would support President Uhuru Kenyatta’s reelection on October 26. Magara lost his bid to become Kisii senator. Kibagendi said the race is between him and Onyonka.  He said if Uhuru wins, it will be an added advantage.