Musalia Mudavadi and his ANC party are stronger than ever, MP Christopher Aseka has said, noting the aim is to unite Kenya and rule one day. The Kwhisero lawmaker praised his leader for building a strong party and added he is capable of being president. The "sham elections" on October 26 won't deter the party's ambition, he said. Mudavadi is NASA's chief campaigner and the co-principal in charge of Amani National Congress. The others are Deputy President hopeful Kalonzo Musyoka of Wiper and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula who is Ford Kenya party boss. Aseka said: "Raila won the election and we as a party will do our best to support the will of Kenyan people as we await 2022." Mudavadi said in March that none of the principals will leave the coalition which Raila transformed into a national resistance movement. He dismissed assertions that NASA would disintegrate before the August 8 poll, saying it is a people's movement, therefore, cannot be shaken by the exit of an individual. More on this: Kalonzo is not leaving NASA, none of us will - Mudavadi Also read: Weta announces NASA Dandora rally, says Mudavadi has not quit Speaking in the constituency on Sunday, the MP criticised the blocking of the appointment of Barrack Muluka as Amani secretary general. Registrar of Political Parties Lucy Ndung'u declined the appointment on October 16 stating she had received a complaint from Evans Nyaribo, who said he was a founding member of the party. Nyaribo said the party did not follow procedure in Muluka's appointment. The party had agreed to give the communication specialist and political commentator the seat on interim basis. Muluka was fronted after ANC nominated Godfery Ososti to the National Assembly. "The case was filed by a person who wants to derail the party from its ambition of ruling this nation come 2022," Aseka said. Aseka said ANC's national executive committee and parliamentary group meeting agreed Muluka would serve in that capacity until further notice. "It's sad that while we focus on important matters of elections, someone is trying to stop the appointment of honourable Muluka as our SG." The MP said Nyaribo should have exhausted party channels before going to the registrar. But he noted the party is still strong and that when political temperatures lower, they will address the internal structure and formulate a plan for national growth. Aseka said they believe Muluka can help the party gain national support. He noted the politician is a life-members of the party with vast knowledge on Kenya's political scene. ANC reaped big in the August 8 election, scooping five National Assembly seats out the 12 in Kakamega county in addition to the Senate seat won by Cleophas Malala. In the county assembly, the party got 19 members out of the possible 60, trailing Raila's ODM which won 33 ward representative seats. Related: Mudavadi will automatically succeed Raila in 2022, says Savula Also read: Raila setting stage for 2022 after withdrawal 'blunder', says Shahbal