The cropping up of ‘ghost malls’ around the Nairobi Metropolitan has been driven by poorly-informed decisions made by mall developers. Cytonn, in its annual real estate sector report, said there has been an increase in the supply of retail space, with Nairobi alone recording a 41.6 per cent jump in supply due to the opening of malls like Two Rivers and Rosslyn Riviera on Limuru road and Next Gen Mall on Mombasa Road. “Mall developers are not making informed decisions, which is why we are seeing an oversupply in retail space. This has ultimately led to lower occupancy rates and even worse lower rental yields from this market segment,” Cytonn real estate’s research analyst Nancy Murule said. The report added that the high supply led to lower occupancy and lower rents which led to a decrease in returns with the average rental yield declining in the whole market to 8.3 per cent in 2017 from 8.7 per cent in 2016. The report shows that rent received from malls across the country dropped marginally to 8.3 per cent from 8.7 per cent the same period last year while occupancy rates declined by 2.7 per cent points in the whole market. “In the Nairobi area, occupancy declined by 9.0 per cent to 80.3 per cent from 89.3 per cent over the same period last year,” Murale said. The hardest hit malls were those along Thika Road followed by those on Mombasa Road. “The developers set the malls up in these regions without really having a clear vision of the infrastructure in the region and their specific catchment market. This is why we are seeing a lot of empty mall outlets especially in the two areas,” the analysts said. They added that although the retail sector had faced turbulence especially due to the reduced private sector lending as a result of the interest rate cap and the prolonged electioneering period the real estate sector had proven resilient in the tough times. They however cautioned developers on overreliance on the leading retail brands, Uchumi and Nakumatt, which have been facing financial constraints as anchor tenants adding that there was need for diversification. “Developers can get a lot of footfall from food stalls, entertainment centres, lifestyle stores rather than relying solely on supermarkets,” Murale said.