With that, counting of votes in Florida was
stopped and Bush declared winner in the state polls. This won him the
presidency. Republicans hailed and celebrated the decision and
the outcome — the election of Bush as President — but Democrats condemned and
loathed it. Though not comparable in terms of the underlying
issues  — defective voting machines in
one state out of 50 states in the US case and the daylight robbery at
the polls in the Kenya situation — the historic Supreme Court decision
nullifying the declaration of Uhuru Kenyatta as winner was met with equal
measure of joy and excitement by Raila Odinga, his supporters and progressives
everywhere but drew harsh criticism and condemnation by the President and
his supporters. This writer noted five things to be expected from
this historic decision and these are: One, the establishment of the Supreme Court
finally as a true independent and co-equal branch of the government. Two, the
supremacy of the people as the ultimate decider as to who governs them,
consistent with the Constitution and laws of our country. Three, a more
conducive environment to end tribalism and unite the country because NASA
represents a vast majority of the country. Four, Kenya will now join elite club
of African countries, where true democracy has taken hold for the benefit of
our people. The fifth thing to expect is final liberation of the country
knowing people can pursue their liberties and get relief in court, if they’re
denied same. By deciding to boycott the election, however, Raila
has forfeited ownership of these noble notions that no doubt will now be tossed
into the dustbin of history. It’ll take another 50 years to even come near
where we got to on the day the Supreme Court rendered its historic decision. There was absolutely no reason for Raila to have
boycotted the election and the one he consistently has given — a flawed IEBC — simply
flies in the face of the fact the very Supreme Court that rendered the historic
decision told him and the world, to paraphrase, “go out there, try again and if
they rig you out again, come back here and we’ll hand you another
nullification.” The question is, what would have happened had
Raila gone on to vie and he was yet again rigged and returned to the Supreme
Court? The answer is simple: If there was, indeed thuggish rigging as was the
case on August 8, and the same or more evidence showing the same or could be so
implied, the Court could have no doubt yet again have nullified the election.
However, unlike the last time, the Court would and could have ordered a recount
of validly signed and verified forms 34Bs and declare a winner of the
presidential ballot based on the tally. By preempting all of that and opting to go to the
streets, Raila has not only forfeited his ownership of being the one adhering
to the rule of law, and has suddenly cast himself and most but not all of his
supporters pitted against the law enforcement brigade which now also owns the
rule of law — and make no mistake about it; law and order will and shall
prevail as it always does. This is an extremely unfortunate ending of Raila’s
career.  A man who has been otherwise
brilliant in many of his moves only to falter in this the most important and
crucial campaign in his life. Nothing he can achieve now would compare to what
he could have had he gone to the polls even with a flawed IEBC. Had he vied, he
would have come out a winner either way and not the now likely scenario to
scramble for bread crumps that UhuRuto may not even be inclined to toss his
way. Samuel
Omwenga is a legal analyst and political commentator in the United States  