Since Raila Odinga boycotted the repeat election — but demands a new one in 90 days — Kenya is not out of the woods yet and is still in serious political crisis.  President Uhuru Kenyatta is also too ready to be sworn in for a second term as soon as the election is concluded. Kenya seems in a stalemate difficult to resolve. Because of this political stalemate, the fact that we conduct our politics and elections ethnically, and are suffering from terrible loss of faith in the IEBC, our national politics is today racked with terrible ethnic divisions and conflicts that must be resolved with utmost urgency or the country will continue to hang on the brink of a terrifying precipice into which it could plunge anytime and be completely destroyed. And yet, we are not doing much to resolve the issues that divide and inflate conflict among us that include poverty, negative ethnicity, corruption, electoral injustice and failure to share the national cake that we earn together but only ethnic elites eat. But how do we resolve our divisions, conflicts and crisis? The Jubilee government seems to suggest that the way to resolve problems is to allow those who are in power to have their good time without problems and for the victims to wait until it is their turn to eat. On the other hand, NASA was rightly of the view that electoral justice could help to put the right people in power to resolve national problems. Once in power, it was hoped — without certainty — that opposition elites would be different from those now in power and would conclusively resolve the prevailing problems. Without electoral justice, however, NASA has now transformed itself into a National Resistance Movement that will not again rely on elections to resolve problems but will resort to any means necessary to get change and power. But while this is said to be the only means left, it is frightening because it suggests there is no birth without blood. In the meantime, NASA or National Resistance Movement has stepped up its use of mass action and demonstrations to force an election in 90 days, which is hoped to put the opposition into power. But while demonstrations are peaceable, like the non-violent demos of Mahatma Gandhi and Martin Luther King Jr, they unfortunately tend to end up in violence and deaths of protesters. How then can we hold the kind of demonstrations that we have seen in Iceland, Brazil and South Korea, where truly peaceable demonstrators force out presidents without shedding a drop of blood? Every other day, more and more Kenyans are joining the belief that dialogue might be the best means of forcing change and giving the best people power. But while those in government seem exasperated with demonstrations because of their physical and economic cost, they are unwilling to embrace dialogue that is the only cure of a possible revolutionary resistance. Dialogue and peaceable meetings are the chorus of all people who need to change the status quo to avoid going the slippery route of violence, war and secession. But can the government understand this? Catalan and Iraq’s Kurdistan want independence but are using peaceable referenda to avoid any use of violence and war. Unfortunately, governments always exploit people’s desire for peace, which they misuse to block change and truly transformational elections. Before the election, Kenya needed dialogue to ensure it was free, fair and credible.  Now, even after the polls, Kenya still needs dialogue that will accommodate the change that the country needed yesterday, today and tomorrow. To save the country from chaos, the President should not be thinking of how he and his deputy can keep power forever. Instead, he should think of how he can make people’s lives better. That should be the mission of leadership. Honest leaders must not fear change, nor should they be hard-hearted against change that will also benefit them and their children. The President should lead a movement for change through dialogue. The country is unfortunate to have leadership that believes in using power for self-service and enrichment, aggrandizement of family friends and promotion of political cronies and loyalists, while those who are outside the leaders’ political circles are deliberately denied services and jobs, despite paying the taxes that make these politicians fat. While demands for justice, government services and jobs by opposition are demonised as illegitimate, the truth is that winning elections has never entitled leaders to eat alone nor does it justify denying other people services and jobs for all the time the leaders are in power.  This is the worst dictatorship possible tand should never be tolerated.        