Kandara MP Alice Wahome says the video of her disagreement with a returning officer was not about changing results. Wahome responded on Saturday to claims she wanted the results changed in favour of President Uhuru Kenyatta. A video emerged of the lawmaker and Kandara returning officer Martin Malonza disagreeing over changes to Form 34B for the constituency. More on this: Kandara MP Alice Wahome scuffles with RO over changes to Form 34B In a statement on Saturday, Wahome said: "The RO is aware we had no reason to change any results as all votes belonged to Uhuru. I hope the RO was not playing to the media for the wrong reasons," she said. She further said she gave Malonza space to work all through and had no reason to fight him. "A disagreement on how to deal with votes stolen from Uhuru is being twisted. I believe those who are desperate would like to read more than the actual position. His PO made a mistake. I stand with the truth." At Kiiri polling station, Wahome said, the presiding officer posted 440 votes for candidate Japheth Kaluyu, "who got zero", instead of noting the tally as Uhuru's. She said they noticed the error after transmission. "We brought it to the attention of the PO who then referred the matter to the RO. I also raised the matter with the RO who parked it [and said it would] be dealt with at the end of the exercise," read the statement. "When tallying was completed, the RO asked the Jubilee agent to sign Form 34B without giving him time to verify. I also requested the RO to give the agents time to go through the form but he flatly refused." The legislator said she asked him to allow them time to agree on what to do about the wrong entry but he became "loud and uncooperative without taking any due regard to agents request". "I pleaded with him but he became adamant and said he could not make a record of the wrong entry, a position which was not acceptable to me as an agent of Jubilee," she added. The MP further said she previously engaged with Malonza as a candidate and did not encounter any challenges. "I'm sure as he reflects on yesterday's events with honesty, he will agree that he failed to give agents time to verify result despite being requested to give us time," she said. Earlier, IEBC called for the prosecution of Wahome saying she committed an electoral offence. Kenyans on Twitter have also given their views on the matter. More on this: IEBC wants Alice Wahome prosecuted after scuffle with RO Also read: KOT want Alice Wahome arrested for harassing Kandara RO