Last Wednesday National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi reminded us of something many of us might have forgotten about reforming our institutions. He reminded us of a select committee on the Constitution that NASA leader Raila Odinga chaired between 1999 and 2000. Then Othaya MP Mwai Kibaki and Saboti Kijana Wamalwa chose not to participate in the committee. The business of the committee went on, however, and gave birth to the Bomas process. The Speaker was simply warning that NASA’s boycott of the ongoing proceedings of the Select Committee on Election Laws would not stop the process. This is because this is the business of the House and all that is needed is the right quorum, regardless of which political parties are represented. But even more critical is a look at why there is need for the changes to the election laws that the opposition is opposed to. The opposition is making Kenyans believe the changes are unnecessary and aimed at benefiting Jubilee. The truth is they will enhance our democratic electoral system. The August 8 election and the Supreme Court proceedings that followed showed us mistakes that led to the nullification of the presidential election results. Both the majority decision and the minority opinions pointed to inadequacies in the entire electoral process and environment and, thus, the need to improve them. Making changes will help the country not make the same mistake twice in the October 26 election. The amendments being discussed by Parliament will help seal the loopholes that were intentionally exploited by some to ensure that the presidential election was annulled. It has come to light that during the August poll, some IEBC officers colluded with the opposition to intentionally send the wrong results. This will now be catered for in the amendments that will make it an offence and those found culpable jailed for five years. The proposed changes on quorum at the IEBC are also critical to avoid a constitutional crisis under the current set up. For instance, what happens if three commissioners were to step down days to the election? Who would declare the presidential election results if the chairman is incapable of doing so after the tallying of the votes? In addition, the proposed changes allow the primary documents in an election to be used as the final documents in case of an electronic transmission problem. This means that even if an IEBC official enters the wrong data, the forms can be used to ascertain the actual results. The proposed changes will make it impossible to nullify an election based on unqualified claims and without concrete evidence. This will help the country avoid the situation we are in where some of the judges based their decision on the strength of affidavits instead of evidence. When you look at those changes, you understand why NASA is jittery, knowing all too well what it did to ensure that the overwhelming win by President Uhuru Kenyatta was nullified. We must ask ourselves why is Raila all of a sudden eager to commence talks if Jubilee drops the laws? Who has requested talks with Raila? In addition, why is Raila calling for electoral reforms from the streets when his elected representatives cannot do their work in Parliament? Despite the foreign envoys claiming that the changes are not good at this time, we must remind them that we have institutions, such as Parliament, that are custodians of the rights of Kenyans to make laws. One thing that Kenyans agree on is that we need better laws and structures to ensure we have a good electoral process. It’s better to swallow the bitter pill and take the sour medicine now so that this country can heal faster. If we don’t take the pill, our beloved country will not move forward. The writer is a political and communications consultant.  @MachelWaikenda