The Mombasa County government on Saturday demolished a perimeter wall surrounding the controversial Sh300 million piece of land in Nyali. This is despite a court order by a Mombasa Court barring the county government from carrying out further demolition on the property.  On September 25, Mombasa governor Hassan Joho stormed the Nyali police station and demanded the immediate release of seven county inspectorate officers who had been arrested for attempting to bring down the wall. Joho said there should be a 30-metre public road to access the beach. [VIDEO] Joho storms Nyali police station, says cops help land grabbers erect illegal walls The owner of the land Ratilul Shah obtained the court order barring Joho from from proceeding with the demolition. However, county bulldozers on Saturday move in and started the demolition. According to Joho, the National Land Commission, in a letter dated August 12, 2016, directed that the land in contention is a public beach access road. The issue took a fresh twist after Kenya Defence Forces said they will need to be consulted before an access road is constructed. The piece of land is adjacent to the Nyali Barracks.  KDF spokesperson Bongita Ongeri told the Star on Saturday: “That land is just adjacent to the Barracks. The access road will only be allowed after thoroughly assessing the situation.” He said all land belonging to KDF is gazetted. On September 25, Joho said a communication from the NLC showed the land was grabbed and was meant for public use as an access to the beach. The NLC letter seen by the Star was signed by chair Muhammad Swazuri and written to Dina Management Limited, the individuals claiming ownership of the plot MN/1/6063. The letter was copied to Mombasa governor and County Commissioner. Others copied in the letter were County Secretary, Ethic and Anti-Corruption Commission, Kenya Maritime Authority and Director of Survey at Ministry of Lands. “This is therefore to notify you to show cause why you should not vacate the property MN/1/6053 within a period of three months from the date of this letter,” read part of the Swazuri letter to Dina Management Limited.