Police fired in the air on Friday to disperse a crowd being addressed by Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti. The address followed peaceful protests in Homa Bay town that Awiti led alongside Deputy Governor Hamilton Orata. Police did not allow Awiti to speak to NASA supporters at the IEBC compound. They hurled teargas canisters and beat several people, leaving some injured and others scampering for safety. But the crowd was not deterred and engaged the officers in runs within the town. Gunshots were heard across the town especially in the CBD and slums including Shauri Yako, Sofia and Makongeni. Business and transport came to a standstill and most shops were closed as the demonstrators barricaded main roads. The youths earlier burned tyres and marched towards the police station, demanding that police respond using teargas. "We can not demonstrate without teargas. The money belongs to taxpayers. Where are police?" This was also the case in Kisumu county where crowds stole from Tumaini Supermarket and destroyed property. Read: NASA demos: Kisumu crowd rips through Tumaini Supermarket Also see: [VIDEO] Fires lit, shops closed as Kisumu begins IEBC demonstrations  Governor Cyprian Awiti (c), DG Hamilton Orata and Nick Koriko lead demonstrations against IEBC in Homa Bay county, October 6, 2017. /HABIL ONYANGO  Homa Bay residents during anti-IEBC demonstrations on October 6, 2017. /HABIL ONYANGO NO PERMIT IN SAMBURU In Maralal town, Samburu county, protests cut the protests short due to the lack of permits. Samburu Central OCPD Abaggarro Guyo met the demonstrators outside Maridadi hotel where they gathered at about 10am. Guyo ordered them all to leave saying police were not notified. But a section of the crowd was reluctant and accused Jubilee Party politicians of working with police to frustrate them. "It seems police were sent by Jubilee to disrupt our peaceful demonstrations. NASA enjoys 80 per cent support in Samburu...we will continue standing with NASA," said resident Daniel Lesiamito. Though all leaders there were elected under political parties supporting President Uhuru Kenyatta's re-election, the people said their decision concerning the presidency is different. "We know many people were supporting NASA’s presidential candidate and that has not changed," said Joseph Lepariyo. The demonstrators said their decision to join NASA's nationwide demonstrations against IEBC is only aimed at ensuring the poll is credible. "We are supporting our NASA leaders...that without reforms it will be hard to conduct an election that is credible," said Lepariyo. IEBC Chief Executive Officer Ezra Chiloba has refused to resign for allegedly being one of those at the commission who bungled the August vote. This is despite calls by NASA chief Raila Odinga (ODM), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya) and Musalia Mudavadi (Amani National Congress). Emily Leshore said: "We ask Jubilee to resign from IEBC’s office so we can have our votes protected. We don’t want to see a repeat of what happened last time." International Crisis Group has said a possible solution to the political stalemate is for Jubilee and NASA to have representatives in the commission to increase trust by the public. More on this: Let NASA, Jubilee have reps in IEBC to boost confidence, says crisis group