There was drama outside City Hall on Monday evening, pitting anti-riot police against impatient Nairobi Business Community foot soldiers. Word has it that the foot soldiers, who turned up very early in the morning to counter NASA’s anti-IEBC protesters, almost clashed with police when their patience to be “paid” their day’s dues ran out. It is said the angered crowd camped at City Hall from 4pm for Governor Mike Sonko (pictured) to “see them off” with a pat on the back as agreed when they successfully quelled the NASA protest within the CBD. The foot soldiers however threatened to cause mayhem on realizing that darkness was falling and Sonko and none of his point men were nowhere to sort them out. ***** A bachelor who won a parliamentary seat in the August 8 election is a man under siege from an array of ladies. The MP, whose randy behaviour when he served as an aide to a senior politician was noted, may be forced to do more to save face. Two ladies are said to have made a trip to Nairobi last weekend and demanded that they be allowed to enter one of his rented houses in Kasarani, claiming to be his wives. Residents were treated to rare drama when the lawmaker called the police and ordered them to handcuff the beauties. The lawmaker is yet to move to a high-end estate and has been staying with a brother in a middle-class estate for some time. Some neighbours told the MP it was high time he married to avoid embarrassment from gold diggers. ***** The government is said to be secretly giving security to anyone named by NASA as having manipulated the August 8 poll outcome. For those who already have guards, their security is enhanced. The reason for government protection ahead of the October 26 polls is not known. Isn’t it ridiculous for the state to deploy public resources for ‘culprits’ who should be investigated and prosecuted? Well, our small bird hinted that a number of individuals at the centre of poll rigging claims could be under state protection. ***** Matatu operators in Elgeyo Marakwet county seem to have a new competitor. Motorists plying Eldoret-Kapsowar road are up in arms against a GKB 439F white Land Cruiser, which has resorted to operating as a matatu. Corridors is informed the Land Cruiser charges passengers Sh200 from Iten to Kapsowar. On Sunday, it carried farm produce from Kendur centre to Iten. Is public transport part of government-owned cars’ business?