Left-handed Immaculate Chemtai will make her debut in the African Nation Cup-cum-World Championship qualifiers starting this Saturday at Yaounde, Cameroon. Chemtai is among the final squad of 12 players unveiled by the technical bench yesterday after the morning training session at the Safaricom Indooor Arena, Kasarani. The right attacker will, however, muscle for the starting line up against the reigning Africa’s Most Valuable Player Violet Makuto in the week-long event that will see the top two teams qualify for the World Championship set for next year in Japan. The former Weaver Bird Secondary School player from Kitale revealed her hard work and the willingness to learn was key for her to make the cut. “I am happy to have made the final cut that will give me a chance to play at the World Championship qualifier. I will give my best shot if I will be fielded,” said Chemtai, who plays for the league leaders Kenya Prisons women’s team. On her part, national team captain and well exposed Mercy Moim said the squad is ready and determined to record good results at the bi-annual event. Moim, who has had professional stints in Europe, noted that the preparation for the event have been good save for few days they had to train without power and water but was quick to note that they have since recovered and made up for the lost time. “We are aware of what awaits us in Cameroon. The competition will be tight but just like our opponents, we will be going for the two available slots. We are more than ready jostle for the two slots as well,” said the left attacker. She added: “The young players from the under-23 team have really improved and that is a good thing for the growth of the sport in the country.” The three players from the U-23, who were part of the provisional squad that has been training with senior team and didn’t make the cut, are the fast raising libero Cellestine Nyongesa, setter Veronica Tanui and U-23 captain Shyrene Jepkemboi. Setter Joy Lusenaka from Kenya Prisons was also overlooked. Other players in the traveling team that depart for host nation tomorrow morning are setters: Jane Wacu, Jannet Wanja; Middle blockers: Triza Atuka, Brackcidise Agala and Edith Wisa; Left attackers: Noel Murambi, Leonida Kasaya, Mercy Moim and Evelyne Makuto; Right attackers:Violet Makuto, Emmaculate Chemtai and libero Agripina Kundu.