President Uhuru Kenyatta intends to rule Kenya by killing those with divergent opinions, two ODM MPs have said. Samuel Atandi (Alego Usonga) and Raphael Wanjala (Budalang'i) blamed the President for deaths during anti-IEBC demonstrations. They claimed more than 100 Kenyans have died while exercising their democratic rights under instructions by Uhuru. The President has not issued such orders but has warned that destruction of property will not be tolerated. Acting Interior CS Fred Matiang'i banned demonstrations in Nairobi, Kisumu and Mombasa's city centres, citing economic troubles and a growing threat to the government. Three people were shot dead in Bondo during protests on Friday. Three were shot and wounded in Migori town and six injured in Kisumu. NASA leaders and supporters have torn into Matiang'i and termed his ban inconsequential. Read: Three shot dead in Bondo as anti-IEBC demos turn bloody Also read: NASA demos: Three shot, six injured, Chiloba and Matiang'i 'buried' in Nyanza "WANANCHI NOT THE CRIMINALS" In an address to journalists on Friday, the MPs warned Uhuru against dictatorship, saying what has been seen in Yoweri Museveni's Uganda will not be replicated. "We will not allow those who were in their comfort zones when liberation was fought for to deny us our hard-earned democratic rights," Wanjala said. He said Uhuru and Matiang'i should arrest IEBC chief executive Ezta Chiloba and Jubilee chief agent Davis Chirchir instead of "struggling to shoot demonstrators". "In this context, Chiloba and Chirchir are the criminals who should be shot if they don't want to arrest them for tampering with the IEBC server." The Supreme Court ordered the repeat election on September 1 saying election laws and the constitution were not followed. No official was implicated and IEBC, Jubilee Party, Safaricom and OT-Morpho have denied participating in a rigging plot.  Riot police officers detain a supporter of the National Super Alliance  opposition during a demonstration in Kisumu, October 13, 2017. /REUTERS On October 9, a report by Kenya National Commission on Human Rights stated 37 people were killed during the chaos that erupted after IEBC declared Uhuru defeated NASA chief Raila Odinga on August 8. The report said police used excessive force to contain protests in Mathare, Kibera, Dandora, Lucky Summer and Kawangware areas of Nairobi. It stated live bullets and teargas were also used in Manyatta, Kondele and Nyamasaria in Kisumu as police tried to disperse demonstrators. Read more: 37 killed in post-poll demos, bribery and hate campaigns rife - KNCHR "ECONOMY NOT IN ROADSIDE SHOPS" Wanjala wondered how demonstrations can cripple the country's economy and still be enshrined in the constitution. "If Jubilee is stealing our money through Eurobond, NYS and the Health ministry,  who should be shot for crippling the country's economy?" Eurobond  (Sh250 billion), NYS (Sh1.8 billion) and Afya House (Sh5.3 billion) are some of the major scandals that have rocked the Jubilee administration. Raila has campaigned against corruption and pushed for accountability alongside other leaders and members of the public but some of the investigations have not been concluded. Atandi told the President and Matiang'i "to prepare to shoot everyone" as they are going to intensify their demonstrations from Monday. "You cannot shoot innocent Kenyans exercising their rights in the pretext of crippling the economy. Who told you the country's economy lies in roadside shops?"  Pro-government demonstrators protest, as Kenya's opposition party leader, Raila Odinga (not pictured), arrives at Chatham House for a press conference in London, Britain October 13, 2017. /REUTERS The legislator said that as an economist, he knows a nation's economy  is driven by serious planning and micro-economic policies. He added NASA's demands for the repeat poll on October 26 are "so clear that nobody needs to lose his life over their implementation". Atandi said if Jubilee does not adhere to their irreducible minimums, they should be prepared for secession. "We will have no option but to have the Jubilee government and the peoples' republic led by Raila," he said. Related: Uhuru receives election laws Bill, has 14 days to 'apply his mind' Also read: Secession talk divides country