I have evidence that vehicles have begun distributing ballot papers printed in Kenya
and not Dubai as the electoral agency claims, says the NASA chief in Trans NzoiaNASA flagbearer Raila Odinga took
the no election campaign to Trans
Nzoia county yesterday.
  He announced there will be
demonstrations against the IEBC
tomorrow and Wednesday.  The
opposition will boycott the election
scheduled for Thursday.
In well-attended rallies in
Kiminini, Kipsongo and Kitale town,
Raila said there was no need for the
election because rigging machineries
are already in place.
 The NASA leader alleged ballot
papers were printed in Kenya and not
in Dubai as IEBC claims.
 “I have evidence that vehicles are
already distributing ballot papers
printed in Kenya,” Raila said.
“It is obvious the election results
will be announced in favour of
Uhuru,” he said. 
Raila said some IEBC
commissioners and staff were taking
orders from State House.
“Uhuru is competing against
himself.  When you see what is
happening at the commission, orders
are being given from State House. This
is unacceptable, we want a scenario
where Uhuru can compete fairly with
Raila,” the NASA leader said.
 Raila was accompanied by principals Musalia Mudavadi, MosesWetang’ula, Bungoma Governor
Wycliffe Wangamati, Siaya Senator
James Orengo and former Kakamega
Senator Bonni Khalwale. 
Others are Bungoma woman
representative Catherine
Wambilianga, Kiminini MP Chris
Wamalwa, Caleb Amisi (Saboti), Eseli
Simiyu of Tongaren and Ferdinand
Wanyonyi of Kwanza among other
leaders. 
Raila wondered why the name of
Cyrus Jirongo would appear on the
ballot when he was recently declared
bankrupt and yet IEBC chairman
Wafula Chebukati was not aware.
 “I recently asked Chebukati over
the matter and he told me he was not
aware whether Jirongo’s name was
on the ballot,” Raila said.
“Really if the IEBC chairman does
not know whose names will appear
on the ballot, then who knows?” he
asked.
 The NASA leader said the IEBC is
a divided commission, which cannot
guarantee a free and fair election.
Raila, who spoke at Kiminini
Catholic Church, asked the church to
stand for and defend the truth.
 “We want a country where people
are free to give their speeches, have a
right to demonstrate, a Kenya without
negative ethnicity and where there is
no discrimination. The church can
help achieve this,” Raila said. 
Mudavadi faulted acting Interior
Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i over the killings of innocent Kenyans
who have been participating in the
demonstrations against the electoral
agency.
Wetangula said,”Without justice
there is no happiness, peace or
progress, we want peace founded on
justice.”
 Raila also addressed thousands
of his supporters at Kiminini town,
Kitale Railway ground and Kipsongo.