NASA flag bearer Raila Odinga and his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka have arrived at Bomas for their meeting with IEBC Raila arrived at 11.30 am accompanied by Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula who is Ford Kenya leader. Other Opposition leaders at the Nairobi venue are ANC chief Musalia Mudavadi and Siaya Senator James Orengo who is NASA's lawyer. President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto are expected to arrive at midday or in the evening, commissioner Roselyne Akombe said during an interview on Citizen. Akombe noted the meeting will not be joint and that they are optimistic stakeholders will agree on several issues She said on Tuesday that they expect Uhuru to make an appearance since he is one of the main contenders in the October race. "Haya mambo yote tumeyaangalia...tunaamini mkutano unoendelea saa hii utasaidia. Tulialika Rais na atakuja mchana ama jioni (We have looked into all issues...we believe the meeting will help. We invited the President...he will come during the day or in the evening)," she said. "Leo tumepewa nafasi ya kuongea na Raila na Uhuru. Hamna utengamano mgumu....tunatarajia kwamba tukikaa pamoja tunaweza [pata majibu] mahali wamefinywa (We have the opportunity for talks with Raila and Uhuru...There isn't major division...we hope that when we sit together we will ease holds on them)." The electoral agency said it would meet the presidential candidates to iron out contentious issues ahead of the repeat October 26 vote. "We look forward to meeting with the presidential candidates today. We hope to create a common understanding on the 26th October polls," IEBC said via Twitter on Tuesday. Read: Uhuru, Raila to meet IEBC for October election talks Last week, IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati said the presidential hopefuls would attend meetings in person instead of sending "sideshow" representatives. The talks ended on a bad note last Wednesday after Opposition representatives walked out saying Jubilee was negotiating in bad faith. Orengo said this followed the proposed amendments to the election laws. More on meeting: NASA, Jubilee meet IEBC at Bomas ahead of polls Also read: IEBC talks collapse as NASA protests 'drastic' Election Bill