NASA founder and ANC leader Musalia
Mudavadi has said that IEBC CEO Ezra Chiloba’s three week leave of absence is part
of Jubilee’s plot to lured NASA back into a flawed repeat presidential election
to validate the process. Mudavadi
said that disclosure of the goings on at the IEBC by Roselyn Akombe who
resigned as commissioner last week and Chairman Wafula Chebukati’s admission
that he cannot guarantee a credible election with a sharply divided and
partisan commission confirms that the August polls were rigged. “Kenyans cannot afford
to go for the repeat election with the same IEBC that has resisted audit of
their servers and continue to retain individuals accused of bungling the August
polls,” he said. Mudavadi said that the
push by NASA to have Thursday’s presidential repeat poll deferred to allow time
to organize free, fair and credible election is in the interest of Kenyans and
not for the sake of Raila Odinga being the president.  He said the push for
electoral reforms is meant to create a legacy that will ensure that every
Kenyans’ vote counts in future elections. “If we don’t halt this culture
of electoral fraud we shall then content with computer generated leader forever.
And if we did so, we shall have abdicated our responsibility as Kenyans to
defend our constitution,” he said.  He said that holding an election in which half
of the country has boycotted, in a charged political environment and a sharply
divided electoral agency is a recipe for instability in the country. “Elections cannot be
held when the country is split right in the middle just to satisfy personal ego.
We don’t want violence in Kenya. We want peace, violence begins when the
universal suffrage feels that their rights have been infringed,” he said. Mudavadi said that
Kenyans want peace adding that peace is a product of justice and fairness.  He
was speaking during the burial of the late Lugari MP Ayub Savula’s bodyguard
Victor Mudidi in Marakusi on Saturday. The late Mudidi died in a road accident in Nairobi a fortnight ago. Savula, Nambale MP Sakwa Bunyasi and Kakamega county woman representative Elsie Muhanda were present.  He said that Jubilee
was planning violence on innocent Kenyans demanding their rights. He said that admission
by acting interior minister Fred Matiang’i admitting that he was a member of
the outlawed Chinkororo criminal gang confirms the government’s plans on
violence. “We want Matiang’i to
produce a gazette notice that lifted the ban on Chinkororo. IEBC is now recruiting presidential
candidates to try and validate a flawed repeat poll,” he said. He
said that Jubilee is responsible for the economic meltdown since it has refused
to do the right thing and trying to push Kenyans to rubber stamp its objective. .