This summer I walked the streets of Falun, the town in Sweden with a long history, where I was born and grew up. Many of the older buildings have been replaced with modern ones that donʼt necessarily blend in well with the few remaining old ones. However, the streets are full of people strolling, shopping and talking, many in foreign languages. Some wear unmistakably Muslim clothing. Barbershops, dry cleaners, small kiosks are all run by immigrants. Quite a few are Africans, though I couldn't hear any Kiswahili. Sweden today is a very different place from the eighties, when I first went to Kenya. So is much of the rest of Europe. Sweden went, in a very short time, from a country with a very strong sense of cultural communality to a multicultural one. Many applaud it, but some oppose or even detest it. A nationalistic right-wing party, represented in Parliament, with a strong anti-immigration rhetoric, gets around a fifth of the vote in elections. The same development is happening across the European Union, where Sweden has been a member since 1995. The flow of migrants, many of whom are Africans, although hardly any Kenyans, will not abate as Africa will soon have over two billion people. Kenya and Sweden had about the same population size at the former's Independence in 1963. Today Sweden has 10 million and Kenya 45 million. Those who dare to cross the Mediterranean today will encounter a more apprehensive and hostile environment than 10 years ago. Sweden closed its borders to migrants in 2015, citing incapacity to handle the unprecedented inflow. Sweden is doing well economically, but immigrants with only basic education find it difficult to find work and a place in the society. Some do well, but the majority donʼt. So, last week against this backdrop, I found myself in a personal dilemma. For many years I was proud of being Swedish and of representing Sweden in many places in Africa. I retired from the Swedish civil service in 2013 and now live in Kenya. With a few minor exceptions, I have been met with diligence, professionalism and respect by the Kenyan authorities regarding my formalities for living in Kenya. However, a Kenyan citizen, my present companion in life, was met with suspicion, prejudice, lack of understanding, unprofessionalism and humiliation when applying for a visa to travel and visit Sweden with me to meet my family. She has been denied a visa twice on the grounds that she could defect and not return to Kenya. The Kenyan election is given as a reason for the uncertainty of her returning home. Yet she has visited Sweden and other European countries before both for work and privately. That she is a woman, unmarried and without children, should not be a problem for a country that prides itself on having a feminist foreign policy. She does not have millions in her bank account, but I vouched for her costs of travel and stay in Sweden, and also guaranteed her return. This did not impress the embassy. I am considered an unassuming conduit for her plans to defect in Sweden or to the Schengen area. The Swedish Embassy in Nairobi does not seek clarifications when met with uncertainties or meet an applicant for a face-to-face interview, as many embassies do. Instead it relies on computer-generated checklists to assess an applicantʼs reasons for travelling. Stating that the election is a factor for the risk of my companion not returning shows a profound lack of understanding of Kenya. Yet the embassy has a large degree of discretion to judge circumstances beyond the EU/Schengen standard criteria, and to make judgement on a person’s character. Outside the Consular Section the pavement is full of nationals from neighbouring countries seeking entry into Sweden as refugees. Perhaps there is not enough time to deal diligently with Kenyan citizens wishing to merely visit Sweden? I pray officials in Sweden and Kenya can sit down and arrive at more reasonable, fair and understandable procedures for visa applications to Sweden. The overwhelming refugee and migrant crisis of 2015 cannot constitute a premise for denying genuine applicants from Kenya visas to visit Sweden as genuine tourists. Anders Östman is a former Swedish diplomat living in Nairobi