This is not the first time Kenya is facing a political problem. Every time it has happened, we have always sat down, discussed issues soberly and found a way forward. Even this time, we’ll eventually have to do so. We do not have a choice. The country has much experience in tackling our problems, going back to our early days. When Africans wanted to elect representatives to the Legislative Council, but the colonial government would not allow it, the African leadership put aside its tribal differences, and had its way — in 1957 and 1958. Once elected, the 14 members worked as one Kenyan family and delivered Independence. The smaller tribes in Kadu were afraid of the Kikuyus and Luos, then in Kanu, but eventually the two camps reached a compromise at the Lancaster House Constitutional Conferences. This was a small group of nationalists, with less education and exposure than we have, who wanted our country to get her Independence. They sat together, compromised, brought all tribes on board, and won. Why are not able to do the same today? The once all-powerful Kanu was forced to compromise with opposition parties just before the 1997 election. Kanu enjoyed a monopoly on power and all its instruments, and this was best seen during elections. The role of the Provincial Administration was felt everywhere during elections. District Commissioners were the returning officers. But in 1997 the opposition parties stood their ground and insisted on election reforms. Kanu took a hard line stance and for months refused to budge. Eventually, the government and the opposition agreed to form a committee of MPs to come up with basic reforms to the election rules and procedures. For example, the opposition was allowed to appoint some ECK commissioners. This came to be known as the Inter Parliamentary Parties Group. We were then able to hold the election under more democratic procedures. My last example is the 2007-08 crisis. PNU and ODM had campaigned hard since the 2005 referendum on a new Constitution. This split the country into two competing political groupings. The actual voting on December 27 took place smoothly, and Kenyans came out in large numbers. However, as was the case on August 8, some of the results the Kivuitu ECK announced at the National Tallying Centre were different from what had been recorded at the polling stations. Kibaki was announced winner and sworn in, while the Raila camp maintained we had won. The rest is history. The political crisis that followed is probably the darkest time in Independent Kenya’s history. Each camp took a position and refused to budge. In the end, we had no choice but to sit down and talk, and, by April 2008 we had figured a way forward. My point is, when faced with a serious political problem, Kenyan leadership has a way of resolving it, even at the very last minute. Today we are facing a serious constitutional crisis never before seen. We do not know whether we shall hold a presidential election next week, or what are the effects of Raila’s withdrawal. There is infighting in the IEBC and a commissioner has just resigned. Meanwhile, those of us who are not lawyers are being confused by all these legal debates. The threat of violence, even if we hold the election, is real. As history shows, all we need is for the competing camps to meet and discuss the sticking issues. We must ensure a win-win situation. We shall need to quickly come up with compromises for the IEBC to manage the election in a credible manner. It is important to restore public confidence in the IEBC so when it announces the results, the country will accept them. The meeting of the leadership, and I do not mean junior operatives, should address the language being used. The campaign language must be toned down. The meeting should also ensure the conditions the Supreme Court gave the IEBC are met to the satisfaction of all. If we do not arrange this typical Kenyan last-minute problem-solving meeting soon, then we shall definitely be courting trouble. The easy way is to rush to court at the last minute, but as I said this is a political problem requiring a political answer. Lawyers and Parliament will then put our compromise deal in the correct legal language.