Some 132 years ago, a French chemist and biologist who was developing a vaccine to prevent rabies, finally administered the sample to a nine-year-old boy.  Louis Pasteur was not a licensed medic and faced jail-term if the vaccine harmed the patient, who had been attacked by a rabid dog.  Luckily, it worked and the boy survived an infection that had always been fatal.  The scientist became a national hero.  Today, the disease is managed in a similar manner, and there are improved rabies vaccines for people and for animals.  There is also an effective post-exposure medication that people can be given after being bitten by an infected animal, before symptoms show.  What worries Dr Patricia Wasike is the high number of Kenyans still dying from this entirely preventable disease.  "Once contracted, it is rare to survive. Yet it is an entirely avoidable disease, as vaccinated animals will be immune to it," she says.  Dr Wasike has lectured at the University of Nairobi's college of agriculture and veterinary science the last 29 years.  She watched in consternation during the World Rabies Day two weeks ago as Kenyans narrated the horror of seeing their family members die from rabies.  "Nobody should be getting infected with rabies in our time," she says.   2,000 KENYANS DIE ANNUALLY   The Ministry of Health, in the 2014 rabies control strategy, says the disease kills 2,000 Kenyans every year. The majority are children.  In the US, which has about seven times the population of Kenya, only about two or three people are killed by the disease every year.  Dr Wasike explains rabies is so difficult to treat because it affects the nerves, and not the blood, in which it would be easy to neutralise with medication.  "The thing with rabies is once you’re sick there’s nothing we can do for you. And that’s the worry. Most affected are children because they trust dogs and play with them," she says.  Rabies affects all warm-blooded mammals but in Kenya, dogs spread it the most.  Unlike many other pathogens, which spread throughout the body via the heart’s blood-pumping action, the rabies virus depends on a less well-understood nerve-cell network that runs along the periphery of the body.   SPINAL CORD AND THEN BRAIN   After a dog bite, the virus travels along those nerves to the spinal cord and then to the brain, where it multiplies.  Rabies is almost always fatal once the virus reaches the spinal cord and brain.  In humans, symptoms usually develop after three to eight weeks.  In some cases, symptoms have appeared as early as nine days and as long as seven years after exposure.  But the length of time depends on several factors including location and severity of the bite.  Dr Wasike says after someone has been bitten by a dog, cat or bat, measures can be taken to stop the virus reaching the central nervous system and help prevent death.  "When bitten pour a lot of water on the wound, because it dilutes the virus from the site. This virus must find a nerve otherwise it won't affect you. On the head and neck are many nerves that's why there it affects quickly."  Dr Wasike says the patient must then be rushed to the hospital immediately, not later than six days because that might be too late.  "In the hospital, they will receive inoculation around the wound through injections to neutralize the virus before it moves anywhere, but it's a real battle."  The patient will also receive post-exposure medication, which has a success rate nearing 100 per cent when administered correctly shortly after exposure to the virus.  Dr Wasike says the most effective way to eliminate the disease is to vaccinate cats and dogs.  "If you are in a household of ten people you would vaccinate everyone, which is expensive. But you only need to vaccinate a dog or cat," she says.  If the virus reaches the brain, it can trigger varying symptoms from cold to running stomach and sometimes neurological disorders.   RABIES-FREE BY 2030   Kenya launched a strategic plan three years ago to make the country rabies-free by 2030.  Thumbi Mwangi, a clinical assistant professor at USA's Washington State University, says the strategy is quite straightforward: vaccinate 70 per cent of dogs annually (the level needed to break the dog-dog transmission cycle), provide prompt post-exposure vaccines to people bitten by suspected rabid dogs, and execute a public education and awareness campaign.  The World Health Organisation recognises this as an extremely effective way to stop the disease.  "Awareness and knowledge about rabies at a local level is key. This can help prevent bites and encourage people to get post-exposure treatment," Thumbi adds.  Several non-governmental organisations currently organise awareness campaigns in Kenya.  Two years ago, a group of volunteers in Nairobi came together and formed TNR Trust (short for trap, neuter, release) to help the government achieve the 2030 target.  Carla Viezee, a trustee of TNR, says their aim is to educate people about domestic animals and the diseases around them and help with sterilisation and vaccination. The Trust is run entirely with the help of volunteers, concerned vets and is dependent on donations.  They are currently building a mobile clinic and have so far helped sterilise 150 animals.  This is not a small number.  "Statistics show that a cat and its offspring can produce 20,000 cats in five years if none die during that time! Dogs can produce 2,900 offspring in the same time," she says.  More than 80 animals have also been vaccinated against rabies.  Carla says sterilisation also improves the behaviour of an animal because they no longer go seeking mating partners.  It also improves the health of people because uncontrolled animal population exposes them to health Risks like rabies, dog bites by hungry animals and worms.  "Increased populations put considerable strain on resources and the animals suffer more through hunger, disease and abuse to name a few," she says.  Carla is opposed to the current mass poisoning of dogs to control their population.  "Authorities usually spike bits of meat with strychnine and scatter them in town hoping dogs will bite and die. First of all poisoning animals is not legal. It’s been proven If you eliminate 80 per cent."  There is also the risk of children and livestock being exposed to the poison, or strychnine contaminating drinking water.  Healthy dogs also die when they stray out of the compound during such purges.  TNR Trust strongly promotes sterilisation and vaccination of animals as an alternative.  "If people vaccinate yearly, we can stop rabies. If you can vaccinate 70 per cent of all dogs you eradicate the disease," she says.   DOG POPULATION UNKNOWN   But the problem in Kenya is that no one knows the true population of dogs.  Researchers use cross-sectional household surveys to determine the human: dog ratio which allows them to estimate the dog population.  The best estimate dog ratio is 8:1 in rural areas and higher in urban areas. Kenya, which has a population of 48 million people, is estimated to have a dog population of six million.  To meet the 70 per cent target, this means that 4.2 million dogs need to be vaccinated consistently to achieve rabies elimination.  The good news is that the government has heavily subsidised rabies vaccines for animals.  "Owners (of animals) pay only Sh200. But for a private vet the cost might be a little higher," says Dr Omondi Apiyo, the chief surgeon at the Pets Centre Veterinary Clinic at Muthaiga Shopping Centre.  "You can vaccinate your cat or dog against rabies as early as at 12 weeks. After that the vaccination is annual."  He says this is a huge saving because if an unvaccinated animal is infected and bites someone in the family, treatment is costly and death is also a possibility.  "But people will tell you there's no need to vaccinate my dog because it never leaves my compound and can't have rabies. But you forget there are rats and mongoose and if they have rabies it will spread."  He advises if you suspect a dog is rabid, for instance, if it foams in the mouth, do not try to stone it but simply call vets or public health officials.  "A dog that was always playful could also go quiet and die without showing aggression, this is called dumb rabies," he says.  Dr Apiyo supports the TNR Trust. He says vaccination and sterilisation of dogs are the best ways to eliminate rabies from Kenya.  "The same vet who treats your cow can also treat the dogs," he advises.