The European Union yesterday called for dialogue to end the fresh election crisis even as it lauded the electoral authority’s preparedness for the poll. The EU said it was impressed with the actions taken by the IEBC to address the critical issues raised with regard to the conduct of the botched August 8 presidential election. In its assessment of the implementation of the suggestions, the mission said the IEBC had done well in nearly all of the nine recommendations. “If implemented as planned, they will provide a foundation for an improved technical process, with stronger transparency and integrity measures,” the mission said in a statement. The mission said it was important for the Wafula Chebukati-led commission to get everything right ahead of next week’s fresh presidential election. The repeat presidential poll was ordered by the Supreme Court on September 1 after the apex court upheld NASA leader Raila Odinga's petition challenging president Uhuru Kenyatta's reelection. The top court annulled Uhuru's August 8 election win over illegalities and irregularities and ordered a repeat in 60 days. Yesterday EU warned the “no elections” call by the Raila and Parliament's enactment of the controversial amendments to electoral laws “are seriously damaging democratic functioning.” “Worryingly, there is also concern that “no election” means Nasa supporters could obstruct polling and tallying,” said the head of mission, Marietje Schaake. These, the team said, were affecting the building of institutions in the country. In stepping up the election observation, the EU said it will keeping a keen eye on the repeat poll with its 24-longtime observers currently serving in different parts of the country. “Following the Supreme Court’s decision and detailed judgment, the EU mission will focus particularly on the results process, looking at integrity and transparency. A key part of transparency is that the IEBC be clear about any deficiencies, so any errors that occur can be seen and discussed with stakeholders,” the EU said. At the same time, the team also asked the government to provide security for the IEBC commissioners and staff ahead of next Thursday’s poll. Regarding the progress on the implementation of its nine key recommendations, the mission lauded IEBC’s regular stakeholder engagements. “IEBC has developed a more detailed and transparent system for counting, tallying and transmission of results, and had ensured that the Forms 34A at the polling station would be sent through the Kiems kits,” EU said. The mission named the projection of real-time entry of results at the constituency level, the proposed standardisation of results forms, and the move by the commission to be fully in charge of its IT systems as some of the highlights of IEBC’s success story. The team, however, regretted the fact that the IEBC may not conduct a simulation of the improved results transmission mechanism due to time constraints.