The Constitution is clear from the outset that all sovereign power belongs to the people of Kenya, and they may opt to exercise this power directly or through their democratically elected representatives. Chapter 4 guarantees Kenyans certain rights, such as the right to picket, assemble, demonstrate and speak. The Constitution is clear that these rights belong to each individual and are not granted by the state, agency or any institution.They can only be limited if they prejudice the rights and fundamental freedoms of others. The right to picket and demonstrate, assemble, speak and think are inextricably linked and are central to democracy as articulated under Articles 37 and 38, but they must be done within the confines of the rule of law. This means wananchi must respect and uphold each other’s dignity, life and property. Destruction or theft of property is illegal. Freedom of speech and assembly protects not only the ability to verbalise protests and engage in symbolic speech, but also to arrange peaceful marches and protests on certain public lands, including Uhuru Park. These rights are, however, not unconditional. I must make it clear that I do not condone any sort of hooliganism in the name of picketing. But suffice to say the security personnel are mandated, under Article 244, to protect the life, property and human rights of all. They are allowed to contain unruly protesters with dignity, within the rule of law and with reasonable force. They are, however, not allowed to ban demonstrations. Neither can the acting Interior Cabinet Secretary purport to ban demonstrations under the Public Order Act or under any other provisions of the law. Kenyans were civil on Voting Day and did indeed come out in large numbers to exercise their democratic right to political participation. One of the issues that has arisen during this process is in respect to the tallying and transmission of the results, especially after the contesting and annulment of the presidential results outcome. As a contestant and victim in the August 8 election, I can authoritatively state that the first part of the election was generally well managed by the IEBC. However, I hold, and still continue to hold, that in line with the election laws, all Forms 34A and 34B must be uploaded by the IEBC on their public portal. The availability of all these forms will enable us to make conclusions on the overall credibility of the presidential poll and probably lower the current political temperatures. Until now, the IEBC has not uploaded any Form 34B and neither have they uploaded all the Forms 34A on their public portal. We urge the IEBC to move with speed and upload these forms in line with the relevant election laws and Supreme Court order. And if, for any reason, the IEBC cannot upload these forms on the public portal and open the servers for public scrutiny, then the logical thing to do would be to call off the October 26 fresh presidential election until a further date. Without this, there will be continued calls for demonstrations by NASA and counter calls by Jubilee supporters. This will continue to place a strain on business, leading to job losses and hurting the economy. The current political impasse cannot be resolved by the IEBC or the Legislature. This country’s future lies in the hands of two people; President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA leader Raila Odinga. I urge the two to sit at a round table and, guided by Almighty God and sober leaders, negotiate the future of this country.