A newspaper vendor yesterday told the court how he witnessed former Kabete MP George Muchai, his two bodyguards and a driver being sprayed with bullets by a lone gunman. Ronald Siango, the ninth prosecution witness and a vendor in Nairobi, told High Court judge James Wakiaga the killer first fired from the driver’s window of Muchai’s vehicle. He said he saw Muchai’s car being driven from Nairobi University Way heading to town at 2.40am, but the driver stopped to buy newspapers. Siango said Muchai called him by his nickname “Kisii”, telling him to take four copies of newspapers — the Daily Nation, the Star, the Standard and the Nairobian. The witness said as he was handing over the newspapers to Muchai, who has been his customer for seven years, a white car appeared and blocked the MP’s vehicle. A man wearing a mask alighted and he was armed with a G3 rifle. Siango said the gunman immediately started firing at Muchai’s vehicle. He said about eight bullets were fired. Siango said he lost two teeth and suffered injuries during the incident. He said he recorded a statement with police two weeks later after being discharged from a city hospital. The vendor was testifying in a case in which seven people are accused of murdering Muchai, two bodyguards — police constables Samuel Kalikia and Samuel Matanta – and driver Stephen Wambugu on February 7, 2015, on Kenyatta Avenue, Nairobi.  The accused are Raphael Gachii, Kimani Anyonyi, Stephen Lipapo, Erick Isabwa, Jane Kamau, Margaret Wachuiri and Simon Gichamba.  They have denied the murder charges. Also testifying in the case is Muchai’s widow Susan Nyawira. She told the court her husband was executed by unknown assailants in Nairobi’s CBD two years ago. Nyawira told Wakiaga the manner in which Muchai, his driver and two armed bodyguards were killed indicates it was a well-planned execution. She said earlier that evening she and her husband were at Galileo in Westlands, but Muchai looked apprehensive.  Nyawira said Muchai had a premonition of his death and was tense even as he partied. “When we left the club, we drove in another car and he was following us. I could see his car and asked my sister to stop when I noticed they had pulled off near the Kenyatta Avenue bus stop. I didn’t know why they stopped,” she said Nyawira said she heard gunshots, but did not see who was firing. She said she tried calling Muchai’s phone, but no one answered. Nyawira said when her car was turned around she found her husband and the others had been shot.  She said Muchai was not dead and she tried to save his life, but he died before he was taken to hospital. The hearing was adjourned until December 6.