Jubilee MPs yesterday claimed NASA leader Raila Odinga has printed fake pre-marked ballots, and forms 34A
and 34B. Led by Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen, they urged IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati to stop flipflopping on his
position on whether the conduct tomorrow’s repeat presidential election. He spoke at Parliament Buildings. Murkomen said Raila’s decision to withdraw from
the race was meant to discredit and malign participating candidates.  “As a desperate last resort, Raila has invested a lot of time,
effort and resources to discredit the fresh election slated for Thursday [tomorrow] to
alarm Kenyans and make visitors unnecessarily anxious,” he said.  “To complete this illegitimate and malignant scheme,
Odinga has invested in printing fake pre-marked ballots. These are meant to
support his hopeless claims of rigging.  Because
his withdrawal had no effect.” Murkomen said he was speaking on behalf of Jubilee
MPs. He said Raila and the NASA fraternity has resorted to violence, lies and demonstrations, because he has failed in his mission to frustrate or
stop the repeat presidential election. “As a perennial political loser, he is familiar with the
feeling. It is causing him to lose his mind. He is in state of panic and
delusion,” Murkomen said. He urged Raila to stop claiming his “victory
results are in the IEBC server”, adding that today, Raila and his brigade will be
addressing the country “on his own cooked information”. Today Raila is expected to address the country on his next
move after he withdrew from the race. “We know about the scheme to peddle fake ballots and
other criminal enterprises perpetrated by Odinga and the evil cartels helping
him. They will not succeed. They will be exposed and will be defeated,”
Murkomen said. Yesterday there were mixed signals from NASA as to whether they
will proceed with anti-IEBC demonstrations or not. While Raila told BBC he has not asked his supporters to
demonstrate tomorrow, Siaya Senator James Orengo and NASA chief executive Norman Magaya said demonstrations will go on. Mukomen was accompanied by Kericho Senator Aaron
Cheruiyot and Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung'wa.  