A majority of Mombasa residents are fearful of next week's repeat polls and believe that chaos will erupt. October 26 is the date IEBC gazetted for the presidential elections. NASA chief Raila Odinga has said he will not take part in the elections after the IEBC declined to effect his demands. Raila has said the day will be rocked with massive peaceful demonstrations. Such demonstrations have not always been non-violent in Mombasa, Nyanza and Nairobi. Police have assured security. Security agencies have refused to confide whether they will allow the Election Day be marked with demonstrations calling for electoral reforms or not. Mombasa County Commissioner Evans Achoki told the Star, “We will cross that bridge when we get there.” Abrasive Regional Coordinator Nelson Marwa - known for taking stands against the Opposition - promised get back but he did not. Read: UK urges Raila to go to polls, says withdrawal regrettable Marwa often insists he cannot compromise on matters security. Police banned NASA daily protests but court gave the coalition’s course a reprieve. It lifted the ban. Salim Juma, a tuktuk driver said, “I will stay in my house watching how events unfold. I can’t be out. If chaos erupts, police will not distinguish you from rioters. They will beat all of you.” Paul Mwangi, a fruit vendor in Kongowea said he is not sure of his safety come Election Day. Ibrahim Mkala from Tudor said he will turn up to demonstrate. Already Deputy Governor William Kingi has said all polling stations will be “empty”. He said Mombasa will not vote or participate in “sham selection”. “The elections are clouded in illegitimacy stemming not just from the indictment of the IEBC by the Supreme Court ruling but also revelations the Chairman of the Commission that in the prevailing atmosphere it is impossible to deliver a free, fair and credible election,” Kingi said. He said Jubilee’s fear is  the temporary incumbency enjoyed by President Uhuru Kenyatta will lapse “consequently depriving them of the power to influence the elections in many ways.” “In effect, they want Kenyans to rubberstamp Uhuru Kenyatta’s re-election on false premise that there will be a crisis if we do not vote on 26th October.” Kingi said there will be futility in taking part in next week poll “with the bunglers and partisan officials still in charge”. “It is not true that Kenya will break merely on account of failing to conduct an election on 26th October. What stands to break this country is failing to carry the country together for an important exercise such as a presidential election,” he said. The university don said after Uhuru’s win was overturned because of illegalities and irregularities, IEBC ought to have made internal adjustments to address the issues raised by the Court.