Former Wiper secretary general Hassan Omar has officially joined Jubilee after ditching NASA early last month. Omar said he ditched NASA because he cannot have Raila Odinga as president and Hassan Joho (Mombasa) as the governor. The former senator said if his petition against Joho sails through, he will vie on a Jubilee ticket. "If Suleiman Shahbal will have a better chance, I will back him. If it is me, Shahbal will back me," he said. He said he joined Jubilee "to save Mombasa". "Political process is not an end, it's a means," he said. He spoke Sunday when President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto gave title deeds to three schools and two groups in Mombasa. Uhuru said he is ready to work with him.  "I welcome you in our team, bring your problems to us, lets us work together and see how we can help our people," President Uhuru Kenyatta said. Omar said he fell-out with NASA leadership after then, Cord, forced former IEBC boss Isaac Hassan-led team out of office. He said he was targeted because he came from the minority group. The former senator said Cord did not have the one million signature to trigger its 'Okoa Kenya' bid. He said signatures were forged. "If Isaac was Kikuyu or a Kalenjin, he would not have been hounded out of office," he claimed, adding that IEBC CEO Erza Chiloba should stay put. Read: Omar tilts to Jubilee, won’t back Raila in fresh poll, slams Kalonzo  Omar said Ruto was the first person to encourage him to soldier-on after August 8, loss. "August 11 the first person to call me was Ruto and said, 'my friend, don't lose hope, it is the beginning of the journey'," he said "He told me, 'you are a young man, come we work together'." Omar said Raila cannot ruin professionals' career by street protest. Omar also told off the opposition for holding anti – IEBC protests three times a week. “If the Supreme Court did not find any criminal issue with the IEBC, who are you? Omar posed. Omar urged Chiloba not to be intimidated with the protests calling for his resignation. “Do your job you are a young man. You have a family to feed and integrity to protect. Do not be biased.” Omar said. Omar also urged that Mombasa residents to turn out in large numbers and vote to re-elect the incumbent president Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto. "We cannot have Raila as President and Joho as governor. We must do everything change the direction of the country, " Omar said. Also read: Could Omar be joining Jubilee this Sunday?