
Former
IEBC Commissioner ambassador Yusuf Nzibo will chair the Supreme
Council of Kenya Muslims for the next five years with a promise to turn
around the organization's image. Nzibo
beat long serving chair professor Abdulghafur El-Busaidy with 95
votes against 74 in an election held on Monday at Huda mosque in
South B. Former
Kuwait ambassadors and a diplomat at ministry of foreign Office
of the Great Lakes Region Mohamed
Adan Mahat was elected Secretary general with 89 votes against his
rival Hassan Ole Naado who got 80 votes. Adan
Wachu who has been the secretary general for over ten years didn't
not defend his seat. This
was the first successful
elections
in 16 years. Previous
attempts to hold elections were frustrated through court battles by
some of the organization's top officials or through their proxies. The
long serving national
organising
secretary Sharrif
Hussein was edged out by Abdullatif
Salat. Shariff
who
managed 74 votes against 93
has
been in Supkem leadership for over 37 years. The
umbrella body for all Muslim organizations was formed in 1973. 
Feisal
Al Amoudy
is now director of Religious Affairs after defeating Hassan Kinyua,
Abdullatif
Shaaban won
the director generals position, as Abubakar
Chemaswet was
elected the
Treasurer. 
“The
organisation has been facing a myriad of challenges stemming from bad
image to eroded relationship with numerous stakeholders, our key
agenda is to redeem that image and rebuild the ties,” Nzibo said. 
He
said with the new team they will build a new organizational
structure and involve muslims professionals across the spectrum in
empowering it to serve its intended purpose. 
“We
going to bring on board not only the professionals but also Muslim
organization and other players as well be
transparent and accountable to Muslims,” he said. 
Despite
losing the SG seat Ole Naado on his part said congratulated the new
team, saying that he is pleased that his internal led 'coup' in the
organisation had borne fruits by having the first ever well organised
secret ballot polls. 
“I
thank my team for their efforts in making sure that the message of
change/reforms in SUPKEM is heard loud and clear from all corners of
the Republic of Kenya including in the media. My team and I have made
our case all through from the court corridors to the court of SUPKEM
membership,” he said. 
“We
have made our case loud and clear to all those who matter. Now that
the membership of SUPKEM have given you the mandate, please take it
seriously and try all what you can with Allah’s guidance to
confront the challenges Muslims are facing in Kenya. We have you in
our prayers and wish you all the best. Elf Mabruk!,” he added. 
Ends 
