NASA principal Musalia Mudavadi has accused the Jubilee administration of ravaging the economy. He said wananchi are getting increasingly bitter with each passing day because of the high cost of living that has made it difficult for them to afford “a plate of ugali”. Mudavadi said the value of the shilling has also continued to dwindle. He told NASA supporters on Sunday to stand firm with the alliance leaders. Mudavadi said Jubilee continues to pressure the IEBC to carry on with tomorrow’s rerun, despite many problems the commission faces. “We recently heard some silly stories from Jubilee that NASA is making the economy worsen. That is bullshit because they are the ones pressuring IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati to go on with the polls,” Mudavadi said. NASA has remained firm that it will not participate in the repeat presidential election tomorrow. It says there is no level playing field and the outcome of tomorrow’s poll is predetermined. It says its ‘irreducible-minimum’ demands have not been met. The alliance says an election should not be a formality. Instead, it should be free and fair to guarantee credible results and reflect the will of the people, it adds. Mudavadi urged NASA supporters and the Mulembe nation to stand up and be part of the change that NASA wants to bring about to transform lives “through improved living standards”. He spoke to NASA supporters during a funeral in Lugari constituency, Kakamega. “We know they want to push Kenyans who are smart to the corner by thinking they will take us as fools and have a repeat of what happened on August 8. That cannot happen. Let them know that clearly,” he said. From the comments made by Chebukati and former commissioner Roselyn Akombe, the IEBC is not prepared to hold the rerun in a way that will ensure credible results, the ANC leader added. NASA flagbearer Raila Odinga and running mate Kalonzo Musyoka withdrew from the race and said there will be no election. On Monday, Raila dismissed the rerun as a Jubilee opinion poll that cannot be taken as a Kenyan process. He said rejoining the race would make him a flower girl in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s wedding. “We are simply saying that the ground is not level for the repeat poll. But they seem not to get the point. Our hands are tied and the referee has been compromised. How can we play against them [Jubilee] with all that?” he asked. Mudavadi reiterated that NASA victory was stolen and this has made “our supporters across the country bitter with Uhuru”.