Contradictions between the Disbursement Schedule and the County Allocation of Revenue Bill are delaying the release of funds to county governments, Treasury CS Henry Rotich has said. Rotich said they are waiting for the Senate to make amendments to the disbursement schedule to align it with county revenue allocation laws before the funds can be released.  "We have delayed to release the funds but the problem is not lack of money. The problem is the disbursement schedule that was prepared by Senate is in contradiction with the County Allocation Revenue Bill,” Rotich said on Saturday in an interview with KTN. He said the delayed funds have accrued to Sh54 billion since the month of July. Rotich said they have released only Sh8 billion to enable county governments pay staff and are preparing to release another Sh8 billion. “We know that counties need to pay salaries and that is what we are giving now but funds for things like development will have to wait for the amendments,” Rotich said. The CS confirmed that funds for the purchase of maize from farmers have been approved and deposited in the Strategic Food Fund.  The National Cereals and Produce Board is to open its depots this week to start buying maize from farmers.  Agriculture CS Willy Bett said the government will buy a 90kg bag at Sh3,200.   Read: Push up maize price per bag to Sh4,000 - farmers Rotich said the country’s economy has remained resilient in light of the prevailing political atmosphere although it has not grown at the projected rate. “We had projected a 6 per cent economic growth this year but we have now revised that to 5 per cent. We have been in an electioneering mood for so long and that has affected our plans to raise revenue." Rotich said a large sum of money has also been spent in the August 8 election and in the repeat election scheduled for October 26. He said businesses have also suffered as a result of the uncertainties created by the electioneering period saying things could get worse if the country fails to get over the elections soon.      