Musalia Mudavadi has called on the international community not to acquiesce to the "fraud being committed in the name of a repeat presidential election". The Amani National Congress leader said the election lacks democratic elements. "Jubilee has blindfolded them, and they are unable to see the erosion of the will of the people, via an election based on an illegality and carried out with aggressive dishonesty," he said in a statement on Saturday. He said the presidential re-run became a nullity the day NASA candidate Raila Odinga (ODM) and his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) withdrew. The four Opposition leaders, who include Ford Kenya boss Moses Wetang'ula - cited lack of reforms at IEBC and accused several officials, including CEO Ezra Chiloba - of bungling the August 8 vote. More on this: Raila withdraws from race, demands fresh election Mudavadi said: "Kenya is going through the birth pangs of a nascent dictatorship in the making. The sad thing about this farce is that our partners have been hoodwinked to babysit the beginning of a repressive regime hell-bent on emasculating democratic institutions. "What the world is nurturing in Kenya is an assault of constitutionalism, rule of law and democratic governance. It began with the dismembering of the IEBC and now the Judiciary is aggressively being intimidated into compliance." Related: 'Uhuru rigging against himself': Raila claims ROs asked to beef up numbers The politician said the lack of shades for a free, fair and transparent election makes the Kenyan situation incomparable to the worst election by any African standards. Mudavadi doubted whether the West actually knows what Kenya's fall into a lawless dictatorship means for the region. "I doubt our friends know what the loss of Kenya as an experiment in democratic governance means to the African region," he said. "Institutions that bind democracy are being mutilated yet they want us to be part of it. They are condoning embedding of power acquired dishonestly and repressively maintained.  Once Kenya is gone, it will become the standard measure of governance in Africa." The NASA principal further said President Uhuru Kenyatta's Jubilee Party is fixated on reconciling their "fraudulent" August 8 poll numbers and IEBC is falsifying figures to achieve this. IEBC and Jubilee have denied colluding to rig the election. "The magic number of eight million is the driving force behind contradictory announcements by IEBC about the reality of low voter turnout, numbers scrolling and a new impetus to arbitrarily increase turnout," he said. "None other than the IEBC chairman announced yesterday (Friday) morning that turnout in Nambale constituency of Busia county was 825 out of over 42,000. But by afternoon, it had changed to 22,000. No wonder they've abandoned the KIEMS system and are depending on hand-delivered results that are easy to manipulate." More on kits: [AUDIO] KIEMS kits inaccurate, forms 34B will verify numbers - IEBC PRE-COLD WAR DIPLOMACY Mudavadi answered questions in an interview with Eastern Africa bureau chiefs of the New York Times and Africa Confidential at his NASA office in Nairobi. He said some of the foreign missions have attempted to goad NASA into participating against its warning of an an illegal process. Mudavadi condemned an attempt to profile the Luo community and repression targeting Luo and Luhya communities. He said the election boycott was experienced across the country and that there was a sinister plot to profile and isolate the Luo community as rioters. "It isn’t curious anymore why Nyanza was isolated as a hot spot. It's a dangerous trend of ethnic profiling for purposes of using brutal force on unarmed civilians. Ethnic cleansing is now targeted at the Luo and Luhya post-October 26 in various parts of the country," he said.  "They wanted us to participate for the sake of it...to appear as if elections were held. But we knew that was bait to give an illegitimate election a veneer of legitimacy," said the ANC leader. "Our staying out with more than half the country supporting the boycott has denied them an opportunity to use us to market a reversal to pre-Cold War diplomacy of supporting regime stability at the expense of democracy.  "It’s a mockery. The election lost meaning the moment the people were disenfranchised forcefully through IEBC procured candidates of Raila and others against Uhuru. Other than Uhuru, no other candidates had agents at polling stations. So whose election was this? Isn't a Jubilee opinion poll done by IEBC at public expense?" Read: Drop in Uhuru votes exposes Jubilee-IEBC fraud, says Mudavadi Also read: Akombe cries for Kenya, chides countries for backing 'deeply flawed' system