Police killed at least 50 people and injured scores in Nairobi as they responded to protests that broke out after the August 8, election, two international human rights organisations have claimed. In a 37-page report to be released this morning, 'Kill Those Criminals: Security Forces' Violation in Kenya', Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch documents brutality and cruel treatment of protesters by police. The report says police are directly implicated in the deaths of at least 33 people, another 17 were allegedly killed, most of them in Kawangware, but researchers could not confirm the cases the report shows. Last week Kenya National Commission on Human Rights in their 'Mirage at Dusk: A Human Rights Account of the 2017 General Elections' report documented that 37 people were killed in three days of unrest after declaration of presidential results majority of whom were from one ethnic extraction. Seven of those killed were minors, including a six-month-old baby who was clobbered by security agents in the mother's arms in Kisumu. The report comes as three more people were killed in Bondo last week and scores tortured. Jointly, HRW and Amnesty International said their researchers found that even though in some instances police behaved appropriately, in many others they shot or beat protesters to death. “Other victims died of asphyxiation from inhaling teargas and pepper spray, from being hit by teargas canisters fired at close range, or from being trampled to death by fleeing crowds,” the report says.  “Dozens of people were killed and many more left with life-altering injuries in attacks by the police against opposition supporters,” said Michelle Kagari, deputy regional director for East Africa, the Horn, and the Great Lakes at Amnesty International. “This deadly use of excessive force has become a hallmark of police operations in Kenya and must be decisively stopped before the next election takes place,” she added. “The Kenyan authorities should publicly acknowledge the violations, conduct speedy, impartial, thorough, and transparent investigations, and take the necessary steps under the law to hold those responsible to account as a key step toward justice for the victims,” Otsieno Namwaya, Africa researcher at HRW said. “The police attacked opposition supporters and then tried to cover up their attacks. The authorities should ensure that this kind of arbitrary and abusive use of force by police does not recur in the repeat election,” he added. The report whose details have been sent to Inspector General of police (who refused to respond to the findings saw 151 victims, witnesses, human rights activists, aid workers and police in Nairobi's low-income areas known to be opposition stronghold interviewed. Ahead of the vote, police had designated many of these areas as “hot spots” for potential violence and had deployed forces heavily, increasing tensions, the report shows. Researchers found that armed police – most of them from the General Service Unit (GSU) and Administration Police (AP) – carried out law enforcement operations in Mathare, Kibera, Babadogo, Dandora, Korogocho, Kariobangi, and Kawangware neighborhoods in Nairobi between August 9 and 13. "They shot directly at some protesters and also opened fire, apparently randomly, on crowds. Victims and witnesses told researchers that as protesters ran away, police pursued them, kicking down doors and chasing people down alleyways, shooting and beating many to death," the report shows adding that police in these neighborhoods prevented journalists and human rights activists from reporting the violations.      