Kenyatta University Vultures accost USIU-A Mashujaa today at City Park aspiring to recover from their last weekend’s walkover they gifted Chase Sailors after failing to raise the fee required by Kenya Hockey Union. Vultures redeemed themselves with a 1-0 win over Technical University in a midweek duel and hope to fully recover the three points against Mashujaa today. Vultures, under the stewardship of Moses Kagochi, sit 10th on the standings with 20 points and a win will catapult them to a place higher on the log. For Tom Olal charges who are seventh with 28 points, a win would take their tally to 31 points, surpassing sixth placed Nairobi Sikh. Second-placed Greensharks will be out to reduce the gap between them and Premier League run away leaders Kenya Police to 12 points when they play Parkroad Badgers at City Park. Sharks picked a point against Technical University to dislodge Butali Warriors from the second spot and chance to reduce the gap and catch up with Kenya Police lies on their hands when they wrestle fifth placed Badgers. Sharks will miss Victor Osiche who is with the national team for the Africa Cup of Nations finals in Egypt. Wazalendo confront Parklands Sports Club at the same venue to roll up the men’s Premier league fixtures lined up for Mashujaa Day at City Park. For Wazalendo, the services of Kennedy Munialo will be missed following his engagement with the national team. Wazalendo sit fourth on the 15-team log with 32 points and a win will see them topple third-placed Butali Warriors who have 33 points to their name. For Badgers, who are ranked fifth with 29 points, a win will sink their opponents to fifth since they are separated by a single point. Wazalendo Masters play Mvita in the National League A In the women’s Premier League, Chase Amira challenge Kenyatta University at City Park without their inspirational striker Pauline Naise. Chase are fourth with 24 points while the University side are placed eighth with 17 points. A win for either side will move them a spot higher in the standings.