Kisumu leaders have condemned police attacks on journalists covering anti-IEBC demonstrations by NASA supporters in the county. Led by Kisumu Deputy Governor Mathews Owili, the leaders said police should instead protect journalists while undertaking their duties. On Monday, police attacked journalists who were covering protests in the city. Owili called the attack an ‘unconstitutionally backward act’. “Stern action must be taken against officers who assaulted journalists,” Owili said. Nyando MP Jared Okello said reporters should be allowed to undertake their duties without being harassed or intimidated. MCAs also condemned the attack. Anti-riot police, mainly GSU officers, turned against journalists who followed them as they dispersed hundreds of protesters in Kisumu. They fired teargas at the journalists, saying they did not want to be covered while quelling the demonstrations. Standard Group photographer Denish Ochieng was surrounded by GSU officers who demanded that he surrender his camera. Ochieng said the officers threatened to fire teargas at him if he continued to follow them. The officers later teargassed Nation Media journalists Ouko Okusa, Rushdie Oudia and Dorine Magak alongside KBC’s Simon Achola. About 10 GSU officers also surrounded the Star’s Faith Matete and demanded that she deletes videos of the protests.  “You Kisumu journalists think you are special. We will deal with you,” an officer said during the confrontation. KTN’s Rashid Ronald who pleaded for Matete’s release was assaulted. He sustained a leg injury. “I had been instructed to go live, but the officers did not want to be shown on TV,” Ronald said. He said the officers beat him despite Kisumu Central OCS confirming to them that he was a journalist.  Another journalist, Dickson Odhiambo, also sustained a leg injury as he scampered for safety after police hurled teargas at him. Odhiambo, who is also the Kisumu Journalists Network chairman, said the officers harassed and intimidated the public who criticised their action.  At some point, the officers hurled teargas at women selling fresh produce along the streets and those who took refuge in shops. They also stopped a number of motorists demanding to see if they had captured videos of the protests. Odhiambo has raised the matter with Kisumu county police boss Titus Yoma. He wants an explanation as to why the officers assaulted journalists during the demos.  “We want to know the nature of offence we committed as journalists. These acts must stop because reporters cannot be intimidated from doing their work,” Odhiambo said.