MPs have opposed National Treasury’s decision to slash a colossal sum of their budget on grounds their work would “seriously” be crippled. The Parliamentary Service Commission yesterday told a special House committee scrutinising the Supplementary Budget that MPs are staring at a difficulty period because of the Treasury's proposal to slash Sh9.9 billion from their budget. The PSC told the committee chaired by Kipkelion East MP Joseph Limo reducing the MPs budget poses a serious threat of the 12th Parliament “closing shop” in the next nine months due to financial constraints. The Senate had been allocated Sh14.9 billion in 2017-18 financial year while the National Assembly had been allocated Sh36 billion following negotiation between Treasury, PSC and the House Committee on Budget and Appropriation chaired by former Mbeere South MP Mutava Musyimi.  The PSC secretary Jeremiah Nyegenye said some MPs renting offices within the city risk eviction and that it will be difficult to complete the ongoing lawmakers’ offices multi-storey building. Treasury has allocated the 26-storey building Sh500 million, a sum Nyegenye said won’t help since its pending bill stands at Sh617 million. “The Parliamentary Service Commission shall have no option but fall into breach of contract for non-payment of sums due to the contractor and shall ask the contractor to stop any further works, meaning the building will stall and become a white elephant project,” he said. The building is estimated to cost Sh5 billion to accommodate 334 MPs and PSC intends to have it completed by December next year. Nyegenye, also the Senate clerk, while appearing before the committee with his National Assembly counterpart Michael Sialai criticised Treasury CS Henry Rotich and his officers for not consulting PSC before reducing their budget. “We currently rent office space in and around the Parliamentary Square, particularly at the Kenyatta International Convention Center, Harambee Plaza, Ukulima House and Imani House,” Nyegenye said. “The reduction of the estimates for payment of rent shall severely hamper the Commission’s ability to pay rent of office accommodation for MPs.” The lawmakers are opposed to Treasury’s decision of cutting their domestic and foreign travels budget by 20 per cent on grounds their oversight and lawmaking duty involves a lot of travelling. The cut also affects PSC’s plan to purchase GK vehicles for top House leadership members such as Speaker and his deputy, majority and minority leaders, among others. Nyegenye said the plan cannot be postponed because the current vehicles are in bad condition after being used in the 11th Parliament. Treasury reduced Senate’s administrative, planning and support services programmes which include domestic and foreign travels, printing and advertisement, office rent among others by Sh1.9 billion from Sh2.8 billion request. National Assembly’s administrative, planning and support services programme budget was reduced to Sh3.7 billion from Sh3.7 billion. Sialai warned that MPs would be participating in various international meetings and benchmarking and capacity building activities, hence reducing the budget will seriously affect their work. “A reduction in the domestic travel budget will significantly affect legislative business and affect Members’ ability to execute their mandate of legislation, representation and oversight,” he said. Sialai added that foreign travel budget for MPs is needed to cater for committee related activities and that the cut affects the MPs’ CDF office operations in terms of paying rent and workers.  “The National Assembly is required to participate in Inter-Parliamentary Union, International and Regional inter-parliamentary conferences such as Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and East Africa Legislative Assembly Speaker’s Bureau,” he said. “A 75 per cent reduction on this budget item will significantly affect the ability of National Assembly to honor its regional and international obligations.”  The Limo led committee is scrutinizing the budget of all government ministries and departments in an effort to reallocate money to fund urgent programmes such as the upcoming October 20 fresh presidential poll. Other programmes include free secondary education starting January next year, drought and giving monthly stipend to all elderly persons aged 70 years and above. 