Residents of Garissa town are living in fear of a possible waterborne disease outbreak after a sewer line in the town broke down. The effluence has been spewing for close to a month. Many tenants have vacated their houses. Small businesses, such as eateries, are at the verge of closing down because of the unpleasant odour emanating from the raw sewage. Those in greatest danger are young children, who innocently play with the sewage. Only a few months ago, people from several villages on the outskirts of the town were diagnosed with cholera. It was later contained by health officials. Hotelier Ben Marangu said efforts to have the problem fixed by the Garissa Water and Sewerage Company have been unsuccessful. He said every time they visit the offices, they are promised the issue will be fixed, but nothing has been done. Landlady Isiri Ismail said tenants have threatened to vacate her building. Efforts to contact the GAWASCO officials for comment were unsuccessful as they did not pick calls or reply to text messages. In July, Garissa town residents were urged to be patient for 18 months as the sewage system is repaired and expanded to stop flow of raw waste. Residents of Bulla Sheikh village protested, saying they were at risk of contracting waterborne diseases. The sewer line had at the time been broken for a month, forcing many residents to relocate. Food vendors said they had lost business. Garissa Water and Sewerage Company managing director Abdi Haji said the firm was working round the clock to repair the system. Resident Hodhan Arte said Garissa Water officials were lax. “The raw sewage poses great danger to young children who play near sewers and eat food from vendors nearby,” he said. Haji said the sewer system needs an overhaul. “The sewer system was constructed in 1980. The population has grown since then and is overwhelming the system. We need to overhaul the system. We are also trying to unblock sewers,” he said. He sought to allay fears of disease outbreak, adding that Garissa Water had disinfected all towns. Northern Water Board Services was to complete repairs in 18 months.      