Thirty-four-year-old poet Adipo Siding has recently written a book, A Boy Named Kioko. The Star caught up with him to find out more about the inspiration behind the book and his background.   What made you write “A Boy Named Koko”?  I have always wanted to write a story about the plight of children living with albinism. During my younger years back in the village, there was a little boy with albinism. People called him names. He was little and innocent, and he was “different”, and because of his “difference”, we never appreciated that he also needed love and compassion, just as we did. Somehow, the mother took him with her and I never saw him again. When I look back, I feel we owe that little boy an apology. But then I have realised the problem is much bigger. The society in which we live today is no different from the society we lived in back then, if not worse. In fact, it is even worse, what with the atavistic beliefs surrounding this condition (albinism)? We, as a society, have in one way or another hurt or caused pain to children living with albinism. We derogatively call them “albino”, as if the condition comes before the person. The constant in both worlds (the one I lived in two and a half decade ago and the present one) is Ignorance. In a world in which we endeavour to build a global community that upholds the human rights of every person irrespective of race, tribe, colour, gender and condition, it is only incumbent that we all work tirelessly, from all fronts, to eliminate ignorance and educate our children on the value of embracing one another. Even more important is the need to debunk the backward beliefs that have been advanced by men who objectify human beings for their own selfish gains.   So when Burt Awards placed a call for submissions, I thought I found a perfect opportunity to submit a manuscript on albinism that would, if I won, reach young adults to educate them on albinism, given that the Burt Awards’ main goal is to improve literacy among young people. And as it would turn out, I won the award.   How long did it take you to write the book? It took me fourteen days to write this novella. I would spend the whole night writing until around 3.30am, and sometimes my muse would let me run on until 5am.   Any books you have written before? My first book, “Parliament of Owls”, for which I am known, is a collection of over 150 poems in about 300 pages. The book was published in 2016 by Contact Zone Series (Goethe Institut and Native Intelligence Publishers). I am actually known for my poetry. Besides, I have written an adaptation of the title poem (Parliament of Owls) as a theatre play, and with my literary platform “Agora Theatre”, we staged a performance at the Kenya National Theatre in June. We plan to have more performances from November across select counties in the country. I use the platform for civic engagement and education, targeting special interest groups such as youth, women and minorities. As the title of the book suggests, I am expressing disappointment and anger at the political class for the continued failure to serve the people. However, the book has other themes, such as love, happiness, life and death.   Tell us about your childhood Well, I am a village boy. I grew up in Yimbo and Uyoma, both in Siaya county and along the shores of Nam Lolwe — what the Britons ‘nicknamed’ Lake Victoria. Uyoma is a land of mysteries we were made to believe in when we were young. I mean, where else do you have maize farms talking back at probable thieves or jealous passers-by?  Basically, this is where I learnt the art of storytelling through myths and folklores. Around a warm hearth, my grandmothers would tell us folktales about the cunning “Ogila Nyakarondo” (the Hare). My mother taught me how to read stories and write compositions. And our grandfathers would sit us around cowdung fire, under moonlight, as we roasted potatoes and corn, and they would explore the philosophy of our ancestors through storytelling.  It was through this that I learnt the stories of Lwanda Magere, Odera Akang’o, Simbi Nyaima and Nyamgondho wuod Ombare.   What do you want readers to know about you and your work? My writing is avant-garde. I am a liberal thinker and I also believe in learning new things. For instance, I believe in performing my poetry rather than reading, and I ensure I do that. Performance is deeper and comes from the heart. It creates a better relationship with the audience.  I also write in Dholuo. I have poems and short stories in Dholuo and I am currently working on a novel in Dholuo, and this has nothing to do with Ngugi wa Thiong’o’s call to writers to write in their mother tongue.