Nairobi MPs have are have called on the electoral agency to relocate its headquarters from the city's central business district to Bomas of Kenya. Speaking to the media at Parliament buildings yesterday, seven Jubilee MPs led by Charles Njagua (Starehe) said that the relocation will help in curbing further damage to properties and businesses by NASA demonstrators. Njagua affirmed that he had officially written to Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission chairman Wafula Chebukati requesting him to have the offices relocated, citing that protests in the city have attributed to loss of billions of shillings. “My constituency falls at the CBD and my people have requested that the IEBC offices be relocated from Anniversary Towers to Bomas of Kenya. I have written to the IEBC chairman to raise their concerns accordingly,” Njagua said. Kamukunji Business Community Association members led by their MP Yusuf Hassan have also condemned NASA demonstrations and called on the government to take action against the organizers. Hassan said: “I ask the opposition leaders to desist from holding protests in the capital city, we will not allow them to cripple activities in Nairobi. Let them lead demos in their own constituencies and home towns”. The association's chairman Peter Muturi said they will be obliged to counter next NASA protests, adding that they have lost billions of shillings since the August 8 General Elections. Muturi said the protests have affected the turnover of their businesses and that majority of them are unable to service their loans. “The demonstrations create insecurity and anxiety to our customers. We are aware that the government cannot call for demonstrations but the business communities can do so to counter destructive demonstrations by retrogressive leaders,” Muturi said.  The MPs lauded acting Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i for baning protests in Nairobi, Kisumu and Mombasa cities. They included Nixon Korir(Lang’ata), John Kiarie(Dagoretti South), Benjamin Mwangi(Embakasi Central) and George Theuri(Embakasi West) and Ndirangu Waihenya(Roysambu). Matiang'i yesterday directed Inspector General to bar demonstrations in the CBDs. He argued that civilians have been maimed and their businesses looted and damaged during the protests, saying that charges would be leveled against their organizers. Ends