A section of Bungoma residents are living in fear as their houses have been marked with red paint amid rising tension over Thursday's repeat presidential election. Among those affected are people in the major towns of Bungoma, Webuye, Chwele and Kimilili.  NASA leaders led by Raila Odinga had asked their supporters to keep off polling stations as IEBC has not implemented their irreducible minimums. Residents and business people want police to increase patrols, a call that was also made after leaflets with threats were circulated. Protests erupted in the county on Friday after an address by Senator and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula who is an Opposition principal. More on this: Wetang'ula fires up Bungoma NASA supporters after deadly protests Also read: Two shot dead as election tension increases in Bungoma  Bungoma residents demonstrate in the town centre following an address by Senator and Ford Kenya party boss Moses Wetang'ula, October 27, 2017. /BRIAN OJAMAA Residents said they don't want a repeat of the 2007/8 post election violence during which at least 1,300 people died and more than 600,000 were internally displaced. Tony Wahome from Mandizini area in Bungoma town said some of the people whose houses were marked fled. He said they have halted business operations and that people are afraid of travelling using matatus. WANGAMATI SAYS SECURITY AVAILABLE But Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati has assured all communities living in the nine constituencies of "total security". Wangamati said Luos, Kikuyus, Asians, Somalis and all others are safe. "In the past three days we have seen the profiling of certain communities. I urge police to move with speed and arrest those behind these acts," he said. "As a county, we want more investors to come here and blossom our economy. We shall work with security to bring peace." The county chief noted poverty eradication is their priority and that this cannot be achieved in a hostile environment. He urged the people to avoid chaos that could scare investors and lead to more deaths and destruction of property. "I ask county commissioner Joshua Chepchieng to rein in on rogue officers who have been using live bullets to disperse crowds of protesters and shooting at some," he said. "As a businessman, I understand what the business community is going through because of demonstrators. I would like to tell our youths to avert them."  Bungoma Senator and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula meets NASA supporters in town centre on October 27, 2017. /BRIAN OJAMAA Wangamati said he met the county security committee team, including the commissioner, and was assured of sufficient security. He condoled with the family of shoe shiner identified as Baraza who was killed during Friday protests and said the county will foot the funeral bill. The Governor castigated Senate speaker Kenneth Lusaka for claiming Baraza was not a Bungoma residents "I call upon leaders of Lusaka's caliber to stop issuing reckless statements that could trigger more violence," he said. More on county: Leaflets scared Bungoma but Uhuru will get more votes, says Lusaka Also read: Five arrested in Bungoma after '30 boys' cause chaos over election