National Super League resumes tomorrow with log leaders Ushuru seeking to extend their lead when they face Talanta at Camp Toyoyo in Jericho. League matches scheduled for Saturday and Sunday were differed to tomorrow due to the current political temperatures in the country. “The political situation as it is currently has made it impossible for most clubs to train or for officials to travel,” said FKF CEO Robert Muthomi. The Ken Kenyatta charges lead the log with 69 points from 31 matches—two better than second placed Kenya Commercial Bank—who host struggling Administration Police at Camp Toyoyo at 1pm. “We are targeting three points as we are in a very bad position currently,” said AP liaison officer Isaac Nyaruri. Nyaruri also confirmed that they have hired Benley Juma as their coach to help the team avoid relegation. Juma replaces Samson Gitau, who has been fired. AP is 17th on the log with 27 points from 31 games. Third-placed Vihiga United travel to Kisumu to face off with Palos FC at Moi Stadium in a game dubbed NSL’s ‘Mashemeji Derby’. Vihiga’s stuttering form has seen the Vihiga County Government-sponsored team drop to third place. Fourth-placed Wazito will battle it out with GFE 105 at Kipchoge Keino Stadium in Eldoret with former KPL side Nairobi City Stars welcoming a rejuvenated Bidco United at Hope Center. At the same venue, Kibera Black Stars play Nairobi Stima. Relegation-threatened Agro-Chemicals host Modern Coast Rangers at Muhoroni grounds as Nakuru All Stars entertains St Joseph’s Youth in a Nakuru Derby at Afraha Stadium. The game between Kenya Police and cash strapped Isibania FC which was scheduled for Sher Karuturi has been postponed following the request from the law enforcers, according to FKF communications and public relations officer, Barry Otieno. He said federation is monitoring the Political situation in some parts of the country but assured the games in Nairobi and Nakuru will go on as scheduled. “We are monitoring the situation in Kisumu,” he said.