Tanzania has given Kenyan pastoralists seven days to leave the country or their livestock will be auctioned by the state. Tanzania’s Minister for Tourism and Natural Resources Hamisi Kigwangalla, who issued the notice on Thursday, also warned “foreigners” against encroaching on the country’s natural resources. Also warned are hundreds of farmers said to have encroached on gazetted land in Loliondo Forest. He said the notice took effect from October 19 and warned that the state will confiscate all livestock belonging to foreigners and auction them. Kenyan pastoralists have crossed over to Tanzania in search of pasture for their livestock as a result of drought. He said herders have encroached on gazetted land in Loliondo Forest. “This has caused a lot of damage to the environment. I have given them notice to leave or we confiscate their livestock,” Hamisi said. In January, Tanzania gazetted 1,500 square kilometres of land around Loliondo Forest and set it aside for environmental conservation. Another 2,500 square kilometres of the land was set aside for public utility. “They have broken the law and their existence there does not only threaten the Serengeti-Mara ecosystem but also reduces the area set aside for the local Tanzanians to graze their livestock,” Hamisi said. cows auctioned Maasai herdsmen from Nairebuk, Olmesutye, Enkeju Enirai and Ngoyeengalai crossed over to Tanzania to look for pasture for their cattle. Tanzanian authorities said large carnivores were threatened by negative human activities like encroachment on their grazing area. The notice to vacate came just two days after a court in Arusha fined Kenyan pastoralists Sh23 million for trespassing. The pastoralists failed to raise the fine and the court ordered that the 1,305 cows be sold and the proceeds handed over to the state. The auction was set to happen on Saturday. The cows had been detained by farmers in Mwanga district after they encroached on their farms. Foreign Affairs CS Amina Mohamed last week attempted to secure the livestock, but the country’s leadership refused to engage her.      