News that credit rating agency Moody's downgraded Kenya's creditworthiness from B1 to B2 struck at the wrong time. Treasury is seeking to plug budgetary deficits occasioned by a Sh40 billion shortfall in revenue targets in the last two months of this financial year. World acclaimed agencies such as Moody's, Fitch, and Standard and Poor’s play a significant role in rating a debtor’s ability to pay back debt by making timely interest payments and the likelihood of default. Their assessment covers the economic conditions obtaining in a given country, including the volume of foreign, public and private investment, foreign currency reserves, political and macroeconomic stability as well as existing debt levels. For keen observers, this has not come as a surprise. All along there have been indicators towards a deteriorating economic environment, where the ruling elite have not practised judicious borrowing. As at June this year, Kenya’s debt burden had risen to 56.4 per cent of the GDP, up from 40.5 per cent five years ago. The long-drawn political contest has correspondingly aggravated the already battered economic environment. Borrowing in its very nature isn't a bad undertaking, provided the function for which the funds are being borrowed is economically viable to stimulate the economy, and the country has the ability to repay the debt. For the past four years the Jubilee government has raided the international market to raise funds for infrastructural development. The government’s soft underbelly on how it expends these resources for meaningful development has been exposed. We have seen accountability issues being raised on funds such as Anglo Leasing, Eurobond and Chinese loans for the standard gauge railway, among others. Poor utilisation and embezzlement of funds has left the taxpayers grappling with a burden of meeting obligations that didn't benefit them. To date, Kenyans are still paying for phantom projects such as KenRen Fertiliser Company, CID forensic laboratory and Galana-Kulalu food project. Moody's action to downgrade Kenya’s rating has a potential of rolling back economic gains as international lenders would be wary of our ability to repay loans so far advanced. Those intent on financing Kenya will do so cautiously and at higher interest rates. The flipside will be an active government competing for commercial loans in the local market. Banks are always accommodative in financing governments than other borrowers. This in turn will crowd out the small-scale borrowers, who are the engine of our economy, from the domestic market. Regrettably, Parliament has inexplicably failed on its core mandate of oversight on this subject. The Budget and Appropriations Committee has a constitutional mandate of summoning the Finance Cabinet Secretary to table the status of our indebtedness, purpose of the loans procured, strategies and status of servicing the current public debt. It is a cardinal responsibility the sovereign representatives of the people have abdicated. Had this been done as provided for in law, perhaps Moody’s rating could have taken an upward trend of A1. The writer is a legal officer at ODM 