Sometimes, we just need to say enough is enough. Tuesday’s announcement by Raila Odinga that he is pulling out of the election rerun is exactly such a moment.  After a paralysis of two months and counting, during which Kenyans have been waiting patiently for a resolution, it is time for Kenya to move on. To get back to business, and to allow President Uhuru Kenyatta to fulfil the commitments he made to the people – the commitments 8.4 million Kenyans voted for.  To those who want Kenya to wait indefinitely, in a Raila Odinga-imposed purgatory, with our economy frozen, — until Raila is satisfied — let me remind you of some recent events.  The August 8 election was certified by all international observers — the European Union, the American Carter Center, the Commonwealth, the AU and the EAC — as free and fair.  The combined weight of the international community observed what happened and agreed that the election represented the free will of the people. But Raila was not satisfied. On September 1, the Supreme Court, in an unprecedented development, called for a new election within 60 days, while absolving President Uhuru and the Jubilee Party of any blame.  Despite this remarkable ruling in his favour — one that went against the views of a majority of senior legal scholars and the verdict of the international community — Raila was still not satisfied, refusing to participate in the rerun without his demands being met. A subsequent decision to delay the new election by nine days, made in part to appease him, did nothing to change his mind.  Now, Raila waits for a month before announcing that he will not participate in the very repeat election he wanted. It is almost as if he didn’t want the Supreme Court to call his bluff. That he knows full well that there is no way he can win a democratic election, and that all his scheming is designed to find a way to circumvent the will of the people and get to State House via the back door. It is almost as if the tension, anxiety and economic hurt that we Kenyans are feeling means nothing to him.  But Kenya cannot afford to continue to be held hostage by the desires of a defeated candidate.  The data, such as a recent Stanbic Bank PMI survey, a measure of private sector activity, have confirmed that our economy is already feeling the effects of this delay, with the index now at its lowest figure in recent years.  Wise to these affects, the government has also cut its growth projection this year by 0.2 per cent. These are not just figures: They are a reflection of the consequences real people are feeling about Raila’s intransigence. When the court ordered a repeat presidential election, despite his disappointment that his internationally recognised victory was being taken away from him, Uhuru articulated the views of the majority of Kenyans, telling a crowd “the court has made its decision. We respect it. We don’t agree with it. And, again, I say peace … peace, peace, peace. That is the nature of democracy.” Today, in light of Raila’s decision to prolong our paralysis indefinitely, with scant consideration for the plight of his fellow countrymen, it is time for all Kenyans to speak as one and say enough is enough!  We will respect the ruling of the court, and are prepared to go to the ballot box once again on October 26, with or without Raila.  However, after that, this must end. We must look forward. We must come together, and use our abundant human potential to build the united, peaceful and prosperous nation we have dreamed of.  For Kenya’s sake, it is time to move on.       