Capital Markets Authority has proposed a stakeholders’ meeting to discuss Kenya’s rising debt. This was after growing concerns on the debt ratio, which keeps growing. At the moment, its is 56.4 per cent to the Gross Domestic Product. “We are proposing a stakeholders’ meeting to converse on exactly what appropriate levels of the debts are, sustainability of the same and whether we should be looking at more long term or short term debts,” senior market development officer Justus Mogoti told The Star. Global rating agency Moody investors’ services have predicted that the debt is likely to rise to 60 per cent by June 2018. Last month Central Bank of Kenya announced that the current debt stands at Sh4.41 trillion as at June this year. This comprised of Sh2.12 trillion domestic debts while the external debt stood at Sh2.29 trillion. The bank predicted that the debt may rise to Sh5 trillion by the end of this year. The debt is currently 13.6 per cent lower than the 70 per cent threshold set by Treasury and 26.4 per cent higher than the International Monetary Fund threshold of 30 per cent. The proposal was recommended in the authority’s third quarter soundness report, released last week. The report sought to give the status and propose the way forward for the industry amidst continued political uncertainty. According to Capital Markets Authority investor education and public awareness manager Kamunyu Njoroge, the discussions on Kenya’s rising debt should be about its nature and sustainability rather than the set threshold by different institutions. “As an authority, we are in agreement with the National Treasury on the debts they are picking for infrastructure developments; however, debt that is just recurrent expenditure is a concern for us because it does not service itself,” Njoroge said. In his 2017/2018 financial year budget presentation speech, Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich projected total expenditure and net borrowing at Sh 2.28 trillion, equivalent to 26.3 per cent of GDP. “Of this, recurrent expenditure will amount to Sh1.4 trillion, equivalent to 15.5 per cent of GDP, while development expenditure is projected at Sh640.3 billion equivalent to 7.4 percent of GDP,” Rotich said. He added that the net external financing will amount to Sh256.0 billion ( 2.9 per cent of GDP) and will be mainly on concessional terms as non-concessional external borrowing will be limited to projects with viable expected returns and ceilings in the Medium Term Debt Strategy.