Tuesday,
October 03, 2017 Security bosses
in Lamu want residents in places with an active curfews and movement restrictions
to honor,respect and observe such to the
latter. They also
insist that all vehicles both passenger and private vehicles coming or leaving
Lamu county must stick to police secured convoys at all times in order to avert
any crisis or regrets. Speaking in
Lamu on Tuesday,Linda Boni operation director Joseph Kanyiri and Lamu county
commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo said the government doesn’t plan on lifting the restrictions anytime soon
for security reasons. The two
security bosses called on members of the public to respect the curfew and
transport directives until peace and calm are restored or until the government
lifts them. On July 9
this year,acting Interior CS Fred Matiang’i imposed a 90 day dusk to dawn curfew
in terror prone areas considered vulnerable to attacks including
Basuba,Milimani,Mangai,Mararani,Kiangwe and Ishakani in Lamu East. The curfew
is expected to come to an end on October 9 this year. The two
bosses called on all people especially fishermen to adhere to the curfew for
their own good. “Fishermen
here have been pushing wanting the curfew lifted so they carry out their
business.We are understand their frustration but the security of this region
comes first and so we wont be lifting the curfew anytime soon.Anyone found out outside
during curfew time will be arrested,”said Kanyiri. County commissioner
Gilbert Kitiyo said the number of Alshabaab attacks and killings in the county
have reduced greatly since the curfew was imposed. Kitiyo said
patrols have been increased all over the county and called on members of the
public to cooperate with security agencies to ensure peace is restored in Lamu. “Through
the cooperation of the public and the police,we shall win the war on
Alshabaab.Whats of importance is for people to be patient but vigilant.Let all
people respect the curfew and the transport directives.Let there be no
deliberate hindrances and all shall we well.Respect for law is paramount,”said
Kitiyo. This comes
days after stakeholders in the Fisheries,Trade and Tourism sectors sought to
have the government lift the curfew saying it was killing the sectors. Ends… photos attached