There was supposed to be an election yesterday in Kakamega county but it didn’t go well. Many NASA supporters boycotted the polling, saying the presidential rerun was rigged and a sham. They went about their business. Some threatened voters and officials.  Some IEBC staff stayed away, fearing for their lives. NASA called for a peaceful boycott of the  ‘non-election’. Where voting took place, it was largely peaceful.   There had been heavy rains in most parts of the county on the election eve.. In Shinyalu constituency, vehicles transporting election materials could not reach most polling centres because of muddy, impassable roads. NASA supporters also repulsed election officials heading to some stations at dawn. The officials returned to the constituency tallying centre at Lihranda Girls’ High School.  Voting in some stations started as late as 9am. Returning officer Henry Lumiti said election officials were turned away by youths in Musingu, Shilolabakhali and Shihuli polling centres. “We had to break the gates to Shilolabakhali and Shihuli polling centres. But we cannot establish who locked the gates. The facilities were gazetted as polling centres,” he said. In Ikolomani constituency, five-stream Malinya Primary School polling centre remained closed. Not a single banner was mounted to show it was a polling centre. The situation was similar at Musingu polling centre. No election officials were present. In Lurambi constituency, Kakamega town, voting started on time, but on a low note. Most NASA supporters stayed away from the presidential rerun. A few voters trickled into polling centres. This contrasted with past elections in which long, meandering queues formed as early as 4am at many stations. At Amalemba Township Primary School in Lurambi, only one voter had cast his vote by 9am.  Villagers threatened to torch his house for betraying NASA.  The polling was largely peaceful in most parts of the county. Only Jubilee had agents in most polling stations but most arrived late. “We are working to resolve challenges to ensure voting proceeds smoothly,” Grace Rono, the Kakamega county IEBC elections manager, said. No problems were reported with the Kenya Integrated Elections Management System kits. There was heavy police presence to ensure the safety of voters and IEBC officials, particularly in urban centres.     On Wednesday, NASA leader Raila Odinga announced that the alliance had been transformed to a resistance movement to defy the ‘illegitimate’ government.