More than 100 KANU officials in Rift Valley have asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to accept dialogue with Opposition leader Raila Odinga. They want the President to reach out to the NASA chief and other stakeholders so they agree on the way forward for the country. Kenya is facing a political crisis in the wake of uncertainties around the October 26 repeat poll, in which Raila has said he will not participate. "For sure, we are headed in the wrong direction. It will be of no use for Jubilee or NASA to force their way when the country is on fire," Paul Kibet said. The Elgeyo Marakwet branch chairman spoke after a meeting of the party leaders in Eldoret to discuss the political situation in the country. KANU coordinators in the region, including Jonathan Bii and Paul Melly, were also present at the Wednesday meeting. Kibet said the election may take place in a chaotic environment and that violence may be the result. "Time has come for President Kenyatta not to bury his head in the sand while the country is on the brink of chaos," he said. "Let him reach out to all Kenyans and unite the country as soon as possible." Bii said both Uhuru and Raila must soften their hard line positions and put Kenya's interests first. Kibet added: "People, including children, are being killed. We are not happy as Kenyans to see people die for things they do not understand." National Parents Association chairman Nicholas Maiyo also called for dialogue between the political leaders. "The situation in the country may even interfere with the KCSE and KCPE national exams." They spoke hours after the President called for a national prayer day for peace, reconciliation and guidance. He said this will solve the stalemate featuring him and Raila. "We
must thank God for the journey so far and while at it, ask him to abide
with us in this period because we cannot let politics destroy the
country," he said in a televised address from State House, Nairobi. Read: Uhuru says Kenya in trying times, declares Sunday national prayer day Separately, several youth groups in Eldoret have teamed up to launch social media peace campaigns aimed at preventing violence during the repeat election. Ben Chelimo said they are concerned that social media is being used to spread hate speech and tribalism. "We will use the same platforms to mobilise youths with the message of peace." Also read: Declare state of emergency to deal with NASA poll boycott, Uhuru told  