US Senator Rand Paul on September 21 tweeted, “I took an oath to protect and defend the Constitution. I take that oath seriously and will continue to fight for liberty in the 115th Congress.” Do we have such political, public and Judiciary leadership in Kenya? Yes, but they are rare. Taking an oath in Kenya appears to be ceremonial. It does not bind the majority of the people from acting to the contrary. Fulfilling covenants, promises or oaths sworn in the name of Almighty God is obligatory and a sign of abhorrence of sin. Fulfilling them would make a nation prosperous and a treasured possession of God among all nations. Breaking them is sin and may lead to a curse or condemnation of the person who took the oath, their family or the nation. Religious belief is therefore fundamental. A non-believer, or someone who does not sufficiently appreciate the solemnity or that taking an oath involves telling the truth and is binding should not swear in God’s name. Some 80 per cent of Kenyans are Christians. Elected leaders recently swore in God’s name, while holding either the Bible or Koran, to protect the people and the Constitution. It is important that Kenyans hold them to this oath to bear true faith and allegiance to the people and the Constitution of the republic. The consequences of breaking an oath include betrayal, treachery, hypocrisy and evil, all of which are the hallmarks of many Kenyans, particularly politicians. The characteristics of a hypocrite, for example, include speaking lies, breaking promises and covenants, and resorting to obscene speech. These unfortunate observations beg for answers to the following questions: First, do Kenyans understand the consequences of keeping and breaking oaths and solemn affirmations? Second, does the political, public and Judiciary leadership know that by taking seriously, respecting or remembering the promises they made or swore in God’s name when assuming offices, they would make Kenya prosperous and well governed? Moses, in Deuteronomy 23:21-23, said, “If you make a vow to the Lord your God, do not be slow to pay it, for the Lord your God will certainly demand of it of you and you will be guilty of sin.” The blessings of fulfilling promises made in God’s name include trustworthiness and loyalty, which are some of the qualities of faith and piety. It creates a righteous and stable society, security, prevents bloodshed,protects the rights of the people and leads to eternal life. The Karen Bible Study Group strongly believes God, by His grace, will redeem Kenya from the sins of bad governance. Christianity, according to John Locke, is the only religion in the world that teaches salvation by grace. This means that we are not made right before God by our efforts, sincerity or works. Instead, we are made right before God by faith in what Jesus Christ achieved on the Cross. It is through God’s mercy that political, public and Judiciary leadership will develop and institutionalise a culture of being truthful and taking oaths and solemn affirmations seriously. The ultimate objective should be to fast track the realisation of a good life, in a good state, for all Kenyans.