The Kisumu business community yesterday said demonstrations should be controlled by leaders to ensure they are peaceful and avoid inconveniences. The business people said NASA’s anti-IEBC protests are hurting them. This comes after businesses were forced to close during the demonstrations in Kisumu town on Monday. Led by the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry, residents said those planning demonstrations should give the specific time when the protests start and end. They said there should be proper arrangements for the protests. “We know picketing is a democratic right for the citizens but it should be done responsibly to allow others go on with their normal business,” livestock consultant in Kisumu town George Oluoch said. Kisumu KNCCI chairman Jared Ochanda said the demos should be controlled to avoid causing total business closures. He said traders incurred huge losses on Monday.  They are yet to quantify the extent of the losses. The Chamber official told county elected leaders to be in the forefront in controlling demos.  Ochanda said business is a major source of livelihood for many residents and continually hurting it is tantamount to denying them basic necessities. He said such demos should be limited to specific routes so there will be minimal disruption of business. Joseph Ouma, who owns an electronics shop in the town, said if politicians cannot come together and agree on the issues that lead to these protests, then the business fraternity will continue to suffer losses. Ouma said the sector is fragile and requires consistent peace and tranquility. “Such acts can turn away potential investors from the county,” he said.  Last week on Tuesday, business went on as usual in Kisumu as NASA supporters held peaceful demonstrations to push for the removal of IEBC secretariat officials.  Traders in the lakeside town did not close their shops despite major protests in the CBD.  They said ODM officials assured them the protests would not interfere with their businesses. But on Monday, Kisumu was shut down after NASA supporters engaged police in running battles.  shops closed Shops remained closed for the better part of the day over fears of looting during the demonstrations that started at dawn and lasted until the afternoon. Tuskys, Naivas, Tumaini, Nakumatt, Choppies and Khetias supermarkets in Kondele and Kisumu’s CBD were all closed. Banks were also affected as clients could not access the premises for services. Police fired teargas and shot in the air to disperse hundreds of protesters who carried twigs and banners with the message “Chiloba Must Go.” The demos were called by the NASA chief Raila Odinga to push for changes at the electoral commission before the fresh presidential election slated for October 26. The fresh polls followed the nullification of the August 8 presidential poll by the Supreme Court on grounds IEBC committed irregularities and illegalities. NASA has many demands for the IEBC to meet for it to take part in the repeat election.  They include IEBC chief executive Ezra Chiloba’s resignation. Gunfire filled the air as hundreds of residents sang and chanted war-cry slogans to counter riot police. The demonstrators lit bonfires and barricaded major roads in the lakeside town and its satellite urban dwellings, paralysing transport.  Protesters threw many stones in a barrage that sometimes forced police to retreat. Residents used large stones to block most of the roads within the area. At some point, the officers were forced to seek refuge at Kondele and Kisumu Central police stations after running out of teargas. The officers fled after protesters overwhelmed them. The windows of two vehicles were smashed in the altercation on Oginga Odinga Street. At the Kisumu Bus Park, PSV vehicles were grounded and motorists could neither enter nor leave the terminus. Kisumu woman representative Rosa Buyu said NASA leaders and supporters will not relent until the IEBC meets their demands, referred to as irreducible minimums. Buyu said they will only take part in the repeat presidential election on a level playing field. NASA argues that Chiloba and colleagues colluded with Safran Morpho and local partners, including Safaricom, to rig the August 8 election. Safran Morpho and Safaricom reject the allegations.