In the mid-nineties, I was the Kisumu Rural MP on the Ford-Kenya ticket. Our party was very vibrant and was doing very well in Parliament in the opposition. Then a crisis hit our party: Our party leader, Jaramogi Odinga, passed on and the leaders who took up the Ford-K leadership thereafter did rather poorly in uniting the party, and projecting its profile higher in a very competitive political environment. Disquietness followed, which systematically questioned the direction the party was taking and the gradual erosion of its political profile.  Things became so bad that Ford-K could not even hold a successful Delegates’ Congress to sort out the leadership crisis. That it was going to split was more or less clear at a certain point. So promising was Ford-K, especially in its role in Parliament, that most Kenyans looked forward to it as a future government. Frustrated by this contradiction, where a powerful party had a leadership which was constantly “wrangling” as it were, Kwendo Opanga, then a journalist with an acerbic style of putting his points across, warned Ford-K leaders thus: “When you find yourselves at the bottom of a hole, stop digging.”  Ford-K ended up being split into two: The National Development Party and Ford-K, led by the late Kijana Wamalwa. This is exactly what I feel like telling Jubilee leaders today: “When you find yourselves at the bottom of a hole, stop digging!”  I think the Jubilee leadership started digging this hole quite some time ago — almost as soon as they came into power after the disputed election of 2013. Excited that the “Tyranny of Numbers” they had in Parliament gave them a carte blanche to do almost anything in the economy and body politic, Uhuru Kenyatta decided to bypass the Senate in signing any law that was passed by the National Assembly. Polite reminders by the Senate leadership that this was wrong did not yield any positive response from State House. In the end, the Senate had to go to court to get a positive decision that now compelled Uhuru to follow the law in dispensing his functions as the President. Uhuru should have learnt that a democracy requires negotiations more than tyranny. As if that were not enough, opposition leader Raila Odinga wrote to Uhuru a long letter in which he outlined certain constitutional and legal matters that needed to be addressed in good time for the 2017 election. In that letter, Raila called for a dialogue between the opposition and government leadership. At first, Uhuru agreed in a public address in Uhuru Park. Subsequently, however, Uhuru changed his mind and accused the opposition leadership of thinking they could “negotiate themselves into power through the backdoor.” The opposition leadership, disappointed by this arrogant turn of events, decided to put that negotiation into the cooler and to pursue much more effective political strategies. These proved more successful and eventually forced Uhuru to realise that dialogue pays while tyranny simply polarizes.  One of these strategies was to put all needed changes into a Referendum Bill that would be presented to the people for approval, as the Constitution requires. Among the changes proposed were far-reaching measures to make the process and modality of carrying out Kenyan general and presidential elections simple, accurate, reliable, transparent and accountable. The IEBC was, however, required by the Constitution to approve the Bill before it could be taken to the referendum. Since these changes were going to affect the IEBC itself, the chairman (Issack Hassan) led his fellow commissioners to declare the Bill unsuitable on the ground that a good number of the signatures of the petitioners were invalid! What followed was a new strategy by the opposition, of holding demonstrations until both the IEBC and Jubilee caved in. This indeed finally happened, and a bipartisan committee of Parliament, chaired by Senators James Orengo (Siaya) and Kiraitu Murungi (Meru), was formed to make changes to the Constitution and election laws, which, among other things, introduced electronic methods of identifying voters at the polling station and transmitting results to the IEBC National Tallying Centre, thereby reducing human error. But no sooner had the law been signed by the President than Jubilee to Parliament a controversial amendment, allowing for a manual identification of voters and relaying of votes “in the event of failure of the electronic system”. The opposition could not beat the amendment but smelt a rat regarding its implications for the election. But the opposition nonetheless still participated in the August 8 election. The manner in which the election was managed at the polling stations and the tallying centers shocked the opposition when it received reports from agents across the country. The happenings at the National Tallying Centre were even more alarming, with vote increments for the candidates following a strange predictable pattern. When the IEBC chairman announced Uhuru as the winner without addressing the opposition concerns about the process, and when this was done even before all the results from the constituencies were in, NASA immediately questioned the validity of this win, hence the legitimacy of the government he was to form. Jubilee, the IEBC and a good number of the observers opined that the election had been “free and fair”, and perhaps “the best managed election in Kenya’s history”!  Urged to accept the results and “move on”, the opposition moved to the Supreme Court instead, with a well-grounded case based on the fact that the election had been conducted without following the Constitution and election laws. It was further marred by extensive irregularities that made some of the figures announced as a true reflection of the votes cast mere figments of the imagination of the IEBC’s incompetent and/or negligent officials. The Supreme Court, by majority opinion, upheld the petition and declared the election null and void, ordering a new one in 60 days in accordance with the Constitution and election laws, and by competent and reliable IEBC officials. In complete denial of the reality that had hit them, Uhuru, William Ruto and a whole bunch of the Jubilee leadership went on the rampage, calling the judges names, mocking opposition leaders and throwing up tantrums about unfair treatment before their loyal supporters, obviously disgusted at having to campaign again for a seat they thought they had clinched. To call for changes in the IEBC and the process of election, as the court had demanded, was an anathema to Jubilee, which has always been of the opinion that it was not the IEBC that was wrong; it was the Supreme Court that erred. Realising that no progress was being made to implement the Supreme Court decisions and time was ticking towards the 60-day-deadline, the opposition decided to use demonstrations, otherwise called the people’s pressure, to call for changes in the IEBC. Even then, as the days passed, nothing was happening at the commission and everything was being done “the old way.” Raila decided to pull out of the presidential race but to continue with the demonstrations calling for IEBC reforms for a credible and legitimate election. No progress was being made.  Jubilee was becoming even more intransigent, while defending the status quo at the IEBC. Finally, very close to the repeat election, the IEBC itself began caving in with both commissioner Roselyn Akombe (now former) and Chairman Wafula Chebukati accepting that all is not well within the electoral agency. No adequate preparations had been made for the repeat election. For the polls to be held, changes that the court as well as the opposition had called for must be undertaken. What is even more damning is the acceptance on the part of both that the commission, as presently constituted, is dysfunctional and cannot deliver a free and fair election. Jubilee, however, in the words of Deputy President Ruto, insists that the IEBC is there to do its work, ie organise elections. He tweeted, “Chebukati should stop giving us lectures and get on with his work of organising the elections on the 26th of October.”  The DP’s reaction is arrogance at best and sheer hubris at worst. Maybe we go back to Opanga’s advice: “When you find yourself at the bottom of a hole, stop digging.”  If we indeed follow Ruto’s advice, we shall find ourselves, as Kenyans, in a deep hole from October 26 onwards. Chebukati would do well to depart from the IEBC early enough so as not to be blamed for being the hole digger — perhaps even the grave digger!  