From their performances from last season, no one would have thought that the 2016 KPL Top Eight champions will be fighting for survival in the SportPesa Premier League  Last year was the club’s most successful campaign, only comparable to their promotion to the top tier league in 2011. The Got Alila based side are now rock bottom in the league table with eight matches left to play and have little room for error if they are to retain their top flight status. Team manager Jefferson Odongo while speaking on the KPL official portal said they are certainly not out.  “These are hard times for the club. There are those (players) who have quit the team and only the very strong mentally are left with us. Muhoroni Sugar are undergoing problems of their own because there is a shortage of sugarcane all over the country and they haven’t been as forthcoming as they used to. That’s the other problem,” disclosed Odongo. “The players are, however, eager to play and to avoid relegation. They are the ones who usually come up with ideas and motivate themselves every time we have a game,” added the Muhoroni team manager.  Muhoroni, who have 24 points, showed that they will not go down without a fight as they beat Nakumatt 4-3 on Saturday to stay three points from safety albeit with two games in hand over their closest rivals Western Stima, Mathare United and Thika United.   Odongo admits that a myriad of challenges, chief among them financial constraints, have made their fight against relegation more difficult, but the team is still focused on the battle to avoid the drop. Muhoroni have been confined to the lower regions of the table since the beginning of the season, a situation that was precipitated by a combination of factors including mass departure of key players who could not be suitably replaced because of the club’s precarious financial situation. The club’s major sponsor Muhoroni Sugar have not injected any money into the team’s kitty for the last four months, an official said. “We had decided that we must take charge and start making things work, starting with our match against Nakumatt. Winning that match was quite a boost for the players and we look forward to similar results in the coming games,” Odongo said. Muhoroni have a tough fixture lined up this weekend when they visit deposed champions Tusker.