The High Court in Nairobi yesterday ordered detention until November 1 of a city medical doctor charged with the torture-murder of a KRA lawyer. Justice Stella Mutuku ordered David Mwangi remain in Muthaiga police custody after the court was told he needs to handover his patient files to other doctors at the Fig Tree Medical Centre. This before he can be taken to Industrial Area Prison. In a separate case, Mwangi is on trial alongside former Imenti Central MP Gideon Mwiti in a sexual violence case.  Mwiti is charged with rape. Mwangi is charged with administering an involutary HIV test before the woman was allegedly raped. That case is pending before the Milimani chief magistrate’s court. In the murder case, Justice Mutuku yesterday directed the accused to appear before trial judge Jessie Lessit on November 1 for his bail application. Assistant DPP Catherine Mwaniki had earlier informed the court they may enter a plea bargain with the accused. But she had yet to receive a letter on the proposed plea bargain. Mwangi denied murdering lawyer Ratemo Mokua, who was a KRA employee. Mokua’s death allegedly was linked to an investigation he was carrying out. The murder is said to have occurred on July 11 at the Fig Tree Medical Centre in Ngara, Starehe subcounty, Nairobi. The 46-year-old doctor is accused of killing Mokua at his clinic, where he was undergoing treatment before he went missing.  His body was dumped along Mombasa Road at the junction with Jomo Kenyatta International Airport. According to police, a postmortem revealed Mokua had been tortured, injected with an unknown substance and strangled.  He suffered injuries inflicted by a blunt object to his heck, face and genitals, which were crushed. The report said marks around his neck indicated strangulation. Details were not immediately known. The 35-year-old father of three worked as a supervisor at Kenya Revenue Authority’s Customs and Border Control Department, Consolbase Container Freight Services, Mombasa. According to police documents, his brother Harun said Mokua had travelled to Nairobi to solve a tax matter. It is said Mokua and his wife ran a law firm that operates from Ngara. Police said Mokua had passed by his law firm and left in a hurry for a meeting in town. He planned to travel to JKIA to catch a flight to Mombasa.    