Friday night was one of terror for Migori town residents as police officers allegedly stormed estates, shot a man dead and injured 22 people. Among those injured was a 10-year-old boy. Residents said police pulled them from their houses despite the return of peace after the repeat Saturday election was called off. Read: IEBC cancels polls in Nyanza as tally goes on They allegedly raped women, stole property and food and set two houses and a restaurant on fire. Thomas Owino, 44, died after he was shot in the head at about 9pm while having supper at his home in Oruba estate. His body was taken to St Joseph Mission Hospital where nine people, including 10-year-old Collin Ochieng, were admitted. Officers are said to have fled after Ochieng was shot in the stomach. His intestines ruptured.  Evan Mwai shows the damage at Florida 2000 Bar in Migori following attacks on October 27, 2017. /MANUEL ODENY Duncan Okumu, a medic at Migori Referral Hospital, and a friend were blocked from saving the boy before officers are reported to have stolen money and phones from them after shooting them in the arm and leg. By morning seven patients had been admitted at Oruba Nursing Home, five at Akidiva and five others at the Machage memorial facility. "INNOCENT PEOPLE TARGETED" On Saturday, Migori Governor Okoth Obado visited victims at St Joseph Mission Hospital saying what officers did there was criminal. He said chaos took place in Apida, Nyasare, Kimaiga, Oruba and Total estates until past midnight. "This was a criminal act targeting Luos and innocent people," he said and demanded answers from acting Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’I and IG Joseph Boinett. Boinnet earlier said police are working to restore calm and reported that four people were shot dead by police without giving details. He also said 86 people have been arrested for electoral and public disorder offences. Migori CID officer Benedict Kigen denied the claims saying police operations were normal. He said they were withdrawn and peace returned. Read: Boinnet denies use of excessive force to disperse Raila supporters Also read: Four killed by police, 86 arrested over election - Boinnet Obado said most people who were shot were retreating to their homes after the Saturday election was called off but police offices followed them there. Dave Ouma was drinking soda and watching the 9pm news in his house when he was shot twice, in the arm and through his chest. His liver ruptured. "I have undergone an operation to remove the bullet. I am yet to get assurance from doctors that my liver will function. Matiang'i and President Uhuru Kenyatta should tell me who gave orders for police to kill us at night," Ouma said. Josephine (second name withheld) was treated at St Joseph Hospital after police officers allegedly sexually assaulted her before shooting her in the thigh as she lay on the ground. The officers are said to have fled. More on Nyanza: NASA accuses Chebukati of 'ethnic profiling' after vote pushed in Raila zones "OPEN IMPUNITY" At Florida 2000 club, accountant Evan Mwai, who went to check its safety at about 11pm, said officers confronted him and kicked open a door before encountering a steel door. He said they then lobbed five teargas canisters into the establishment. "I kept telling them what they were doing was bad but despite begging for my life, they hurled teargas. This was not utumishi kwa wote (service for all) but unyakuzi kwa wote (grabbing from all)," Mwai said. He added that what happened in Migori town was a criminal act which Matiang'i must have been aware of as officers' did not hide their impunity.  Evan Mwai shows the damage at Florida 2000 Bar in Migori following attacks on October 27, 2017. /MANUEL ODENY Edwin Onditi and his wife Esther were assaulted and welding machines at Kimaiga estate damaged. Police allegedly took a laptop, two tablets, an Itel phone and Sh18,640. The residents said their attempts to report the cases at Migori police station failed as officers threatened them with assult before chasing them away. On Saturday morning, tension was still high in Migori town but business operations resumed. There were more GSU anti-riot police police with water cannon trucks. "Why should they bring more officers and trucks to Migori town after what they did at night? Police are trying to provoke residents for more attacks. This is uncalled for," Obado said. Red Cross officials organised a blood donation at Posta grounds in Migori town, their target being 1,000 pints after hospitals were hit with a blood shortage.  