I t’s all about passion and determination. Sometimes the training is hard, sometimes you might get injured but if you don’t have the determination and passion for the game then it’s not going to work out for you.” I had the opportunity to sit down with Nelson Oyoo, winger for the Kenya Sevens, and speak about his experiences as a rugby player as well as his thoughts on rugby in Kenya. “I first started playing rugby in high school, and after high school I joined a club,” he said. The club he is talking about is Nakuru. “I started because of influence from my older brother, who also plays for the same team.” Rugby in Kenya is a semi-professional sport, which means that in addition to gruelling training schedules, most players usually either have other jobs, or, as is in the case of Nelson, who studies veterinary science, go to school. “I want to become a vet. My dad was a vet so he influenced me. He is the reason I gained an interest in the topic. I only have one more semester left, then I’m done.” “It can be tiring,” he adds, “We come for training in the morning by 6.30am, and we are usually finished by 10am. So when I am done, I combine it with school. Of course, there are some times when I come from training, go to class and I’m sleepy, I get tired.” But it’s worth it for him. It’s clearly evident the love he has for the sport he plays. “There are many things I like about it. There is a fairness to the game, It’s also perceived as a man’s game.” He has had the opportunity to play both nationally and for a club, the latter of which he says will always be something he treasures. “When I am going to play for my club, I feel the ownership of the team, because for me to come to the national team, that’s where I started. That’s where they got me from. So I have deep roots in my club, I will always feel really attached to Nakuru.” One of the things that always stands out to me every time I meet someone from the team is the comraderie between the players. It’s more than just a job for them but an integral part of who they are. Nelson said, “We are a brotherhood, which means we have ways of resolving our team issues, so it’s rare that you find quarrelling. We have a deep respect for each other, it’s like a culture. Once you are in the team, it’s automatic.” But getting into a team or club, is not necessarily easy. Nelson said, “Rugby is growing in Kenya, and you have so many good players. But some of those players do not make it to the national team, and some of them don’t make it to the club games. “You have so many schools playing rugby but not enough clubs. A lot of players are then not absorbed into clubs and end up falling off the scene. I think we need to increase the number of leagues so you can absorb more players from the schools.” With success comes the inevitable lifestyle change, something Nelson acknowledges but has not allowed to change him. “Since I started playing sports, my social life has changed. You get to know more people, and while you can’t just focus on one certain group of people, it depends on how you associate with them. How you act with your friends is not how you are with your fans. There are limits.” “It does feel good, but it comes with a lot of pressure. There are some things that your peers expect from you. It’s how they perceive you; they call you a socialite, but you have to manage it. If you let it go to your head, then it will affect you and it’s going to affect your performance. I like keeping it simple because so many people have expectations on us.” As for what’s next for Nelson, he’s going to keep playing rugby. “In the next five years, one of the things that I’m focusing on my career is to play pro rugby, but that will come later. For now, I have my goals while I play sevens. I want to be a top try scorer and I want to win more cups as a team. “I think I will play until the body says no more. Until I can’t play any more.”