There are still issues concerning the August election and the rerun that was ordered by the Supreme Court. I don't think it would be prudent for Raila Odinga to retire at this point and time. But the question is: Why is that issue coming up at this point and time? I thought he would have focussed more on the agenda that NASA is going to sustain concerning the just-concluded election. The issue of his retirement is not an issue. Why would he be bringing it up at this point and time? That is a very interesting bit he is bringing up. That issue was raised during the political campaign season and he answered them adequately. The argument from the Jubilee side was that he should retire from politics based on his age. People rarely retire from politics. Mwai Kibaki became President at 72 years. Jomo Kenyatta became President at the age of 74. Nelson Mandela became President at 72. They were all good Presidents and they served very well. According to me, the question of Raila retiring now, at age 72, should not be an issue. The Jubilee side was trying to politick on that so that it looks like he is tired and needs to go home. But if one is mentally and physically capable, then he can still serve. If he hangs in there as a candidate and they resolve the issue then that might create a complication for his comrades in the coalition in future. He had indicated that this was going to be his last election. One of the grounds of him getting the NASA ticket was that 2017 would be the last time he is running for President. If he were to stay, depending on how they resolve the issue, that is bound to preempt complications between him and his colleagues in the coalition. During the Cord MoU, the issue of him serving one term and supporting Kalonzo Musyoka in 2022 rose up. But when they were forming NASA, into which they brought in Musalia Mudavadi to expand the coalition, his argument was that he didn’t serve the one term because he never became President. If he were to try and use the same argument now, that would mess him up because the colleagues would see an element of dishonesty. Does it mean that they keep on waiting for him to serve? The writer is a political analyst       