Five suspects have been arrested in Bungoma over chaos after the repeat presidential election on Thursday. People accompanied by boda boda riders from Wings, Musikoma and Muslim areas set tyres on fire, paralysed transport on Mumias-Bungoma road and hindered business. Officers led by Bungoma South OCPD David Kirui fired live bullets in the air to scare them into dispersing. But the crowds responded by hurling stones at them, resulting in chases that lasted about two hours. The protesters chanted slogans against President Uhuru Kenyatta's Jubilee Party and sang songs in praise of his main rival NASA leader Raila Odinga. County commissioner Joshua Chepcheing narrated on Friday that before this incident, lawlessness had not been witnessed throughout the day at all the nine constituencies. "Elections ended at 5pm on a good note and there was no problem of violence or transport hitches," he said. "At about 7pm, a group of about 30 boys started shouting and making noise in town, disrupting business and transport services." Chepcheing said police had to swing into action that saw them arrest the five who will give police more details on the chaos. They will be arraigned soon, he said. Chepcheing said calm was restored after Thursday's chaos but two people were shot dead during demonstrations earlier on Friday. He termed last night's events minor and added: "Elections are now a gone case. I call upon wananchi to get back to their daily chores and do something that will earn them a living." More on county: Two shot dead as election tension increases in Bungoma Also read: Leaflets scared Bungoma but Uhuru will get more votes, says Lusaka In an address to the press at his office in Bungoma town, Chepcheing said the "next legal election might be in 2022" so the people should accept the results and carry on with their lives. The commissioner also asked parents to focus on important matters such as finding school fees for the January term. Police have been carrying out regular patrols in the county. IEBC declared Uhuru won the August 8 election by more than 1.4 million votes but Raila disputed this and filed a petition at the Supreme Court. The court cancelled the victory on September 1 and declared a repeat in 60 days but the Opposition leader said it would be pointless to return to the poll with IEBC as currently constituted. He is now pushing for change through a national resistance movement. More on this: Raila transforms NASA into resistance movement, plans goods boycott  