Many years ago, Noam Chomsky, an American scholar, wrote extensively about how
the mass media manufactures consent among people to believe that their own
opinions were what actually shaped government policies, actions and choices. This, indeed, is what many governments
seek to do anyway. It is cheaper to rule people who believe that what
government does is in their collective or individual interest, even when it is
blatantly clear that many government actions and choices mainly serve the
interests of what C. Wright Mills called "the power elite".     
But let us face it. Many people would rather go about their business and leave
the complicated matter of making laws, policies, rules and regulations to those
whose business it is to do this. But this is only true when things work out
"normally". And 'normally' depends on a lot of other
things. We may ask, 'normal' for whom? Based on what criteria? And who
judges what is normal anyway?     
As Kenyans — since the advent of multiparty politics in 1992 — we have come to
assume that normal means having many political parties in the field competing
and forming a government after a free and fair election. We have also come to
assume that such a government will do its best to give everybody a fairly equal
opportunity to fend for him or herself in society.  As such, we find it odd for
police just to round up people on a street, arrest them and take them to
prison. That is not normal. Prison is for people who have been charged in a
court of law, found guilty and sentenced after what we regard as a fair trial.     
Likewise, what has come to be normal for us is that when we vote to form a government,
that process should be open for us all to participate fairly and to choose the leaders
of our choice. That is why we found the 'Mlolongo' method of voting
in 1988 abnormal. And that is why it triggered a wide rebellion among Kenyans,
demanding multiparty politics. And we succeeded.     
Between 1992 and 2010, there was a long drawn out struggle to find what should
be normal for us in politics. Finally, in October 2010,
we passed a new Constitution, in which we put down, in detail, the broad
principles of governance that Kenyans should regard as normal in our politics.
We then left it to our representatives in Parliament to make laws for the
implementation of these principles. Now, this is where the problem always comes in. Do our MPs always make laws that
truly reflect the principles in the Constitution? When this troublesome
question rears its head, we always head to the courts for help. All these
procedures have come to be accepted as normal in our politics. And we assume the
courts will do their work independently and competently, thus helping us when
we are stuck with some laws whose constitutional basis we doubt.     
When, therefore, we find ourselves in a position where the courts have done
their work competently and fairly, and somebody somewhere chooses to use his or
her power to subvert this normality, then all hell may be let loose.  When people begin to believe that the
systems they live under don't seem to work in accordance with what they believe
is normal, they can very easily choose to vote with their feet and migrate
somewhere else. This has happened many times in history. In many ways, this is
how South Africa, the US and many other nations were born.     
To contain this possibility of people disengaging, governments always seek to
convince people, even when they do unpopular things, that what they do is
always in the interests of the people. The media is used to propagate this kind
of information or propaganda. Religious organisations are similarly used. This
is called manufacturing consent.     
But a time comes when manufacturing consent does not and cannot work. This is
when what government does and what it says it does are so starkly different
that the people cannot be cheated at all. I remember in 1968, when two Canadian
professors at Makerere University gave us a lecture on Sudanese politics titled 'Can Secession Be Justified?'  The gist of the lecture was to
demonstrate that Southern Sudan was justified to secede from the Sudan and form
a separate independent state because all data showed grave discrimination
against the Southern Sudanese people. In education, infrastructure, health,
employment, participation in government etc, the Southern Sudanese were the
underdogs.  Yet they were forced to consent to be part of the Sudanese state
simply because the British had 'manufactured' something called Sudan
and expected them to live there, even when they had very little reason to 'belong' to that state.  The professors argued that this form of
manufactured consent based on the myth of Sudanese nationalism would soon
explode into secession, and it was justified by the data of clear exclusion.  At
that point in time, we students were rabid pan-Africanists. We would not
tolerate the idea of dismembering any independent African nation! We had
consented to support the African nation-states as a result of a manufactured
belief in Pan-Africanism at whatever cost!     
We live at a time when, in Kenya, manufactured consent — a situation we very
often regard as normal in Kenya — is fast being replaced by 'forced
consent'.  It is very clear that we, in Kisumu county, have said loud and
clear that we do not want to vote today. We had said we did not want to vote on
Thursday as well.  But the IEBC personnel came here, backed by lorry loads of
police, army, GSU and Mungiki personnel. Even before daybreak on Thursday,
lorry loads were already hovering everywhere. This prompted the people to mount
roadblocks to stop these lorries from reaching their residential places and
polling stations, forcing them to vote under duress.       Last time — after the
August 8 election, when these roadblocks were not
erected in time — the armed persons caused havoc in the popular estates of
Nyalenda, Obunga, Manyatta and Kondele in Kisumu city.  This time, at the end of
Thursday, four people were dead from gunshot wounds, nine
were in hospital having been shot and 22 others were beaten by batons, cut by
Maasai swords or bashed by wooden clubs. All this in an exercise to force
people to vote or punish them for not voting.    
I am told there is yet another group of Kenyans who believe that what is
happening in Kisumu is quite 'normal'. Twice the heads of security in
Kisumu have told me that I should tell "my" people to keep out of
trouble. My response has always been: They are not "my" people, they are
"our" people; and that is why you are here to give them security and
not to rob, beat, torture and kill them!    
So, are we really living in one Kenya? Have the rulers made some Kenyans have
some manufactured consent to support the government, while others must suffer 'forced' consent simply to tolerate being Kenyans? I do not think
such a situation is normal; otherwise, I will have to accept a completely new
definition of 'normal', which I won't.  As with the Canadian professors,
it behooves me to examine whether it is really possible to become Kenyan under
these circumstances, since the enterprise of making Kenya has always been a work
in progress since Independence.  It is not really impossible to break up Kenya
into its component parts and then begin the process of negotiating a new Kenya
based on principles all accept as they enter into the pact of being Kenyans.
This, perhaps, is the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth.