Women with circumcised male partners are less likely to contract syphilis, cervical cancer and other sexually transmitted infections later in life, a new health review shows.  Researchers arrived at the conclusion after analysing 60 past publications, including studies from Kenya.  The review is published in the latest edition of The Lancet Global Health journal.  They found evidence that male circumcision decreased the risk for cervical cancer and its precursor cervical dysplasia, herpes simplex virus type 2, chlamydia, and syphilis in women.  There was also decreased risk for human papillomavirus, which causes cervical cancer and genital warts.  Male circumcision is widely known to reduce prevalence of STIs in men, which translates into lower risk of STI exposure in women.  But the researchers wanted to further establish if circumcised men with STIs are still less likely to spread the infections.  "These findings confirm that voluntary medical male circumcision is associated with protection for female partners from diseases that severely impact their health," said study first author Jonathan Grund, of the US Centre for Disease Control.  The other researchers came from the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, and global health nonprofit Jhpiego.  One of the papers analysed was a 2014 study of women in Kenya and Uganda which found a 59 per cent reduction in incident syphilis among women with circumcised male sexual partners. There was also a 58 per cent lower risk of incident Trachomatis vaginalis than did women with uncircumcised partners.  The authors speculated that infected vaginal secretions might be retained under the foreskin of an uncircumcised penis for longer, so increasing risk of urethral infection and transmission to a subsequent female partner. Kenya runs one of the world's most vigorous medical male circumcision programme, mainly in Nyanza.  The programme was launched in 2008 with an aim to circumcise 860,000 men countrywide by 2013.  The country achieved 71 per cent of the target but surpassed target in Nyanza region.  “Women can choose a circumcised sexual partner or encourage an uncircumcised partner to get circumcised,” authors recommended. Most studies, including have in the past noted that women generally favour circumcised partners for aesthetic reasons, sexual pleasure, vaginal penetration, hygiene, and reduced infection risk.  Cervical cancer is the second-most frequent cancer among Kenyan women and the leading cause of death among women of reproductive age.  About 3,000 Kenyan women develop cervical cancer every year, and 1600 are killed by it. By 2025, the number of new cervical cancer cases annually will reach 4,200, according to the Kenya Cancer Registry.