  We are in the era of anti-establishment.
But what do voters look for? Most political pundits agree President Donald Trump
was elected on the anti-establishment card. He came up with slogans that
connected well with voters such as ‘America First’, ‘l will build a wall paid
for by the Mexicans’, ‘Obama must go home’. He won. Barack Obama campaigned and
won in 2008, using the anti-establishment card. Obama behaved like St. Francis
of Assisi, reaching out to unify a broken nation, a fragmented international
community and counter global nationalism. The Nobel Peace Prize to Obama
incensed the hope of the world. The Obamacare is an unmatched legacy serving 30
million Americans, previously excluded from healthcare. Trump has not only lost
the international support but faces possibilities of impeachment at home. The
smoke over the collusion with Russia in the 2016 presidential election taints
him negatively.  The 2016 Brexit referendum exposed Great Britain
as a racist, anti-internationalism, anti-migration nation, guised in the name
of “Re-negotiating with Brussels new terms”. Yet most investors see London as a
favourable destination for business. The Brexit fiasco handed Theresa May a bloody
nose in the June snap election. The miscalculation to hold a snap election dismayed
all. The Tory majority in Parliament was smothered to pieces by a resurgent
Labour Party. The anti-establishment resurrected the Corbynistas to fight the
government. Jeremy Corbyn,
the Labour leader, rode on the wave, garnering 30 more seats. But what were the
voters looking for in PM May? The youth voters and the over 40s saw
anti-migration politics as suicidal to the UK. Universities accepted hundreds
of foreign students — some Britons live in Mainland Europe like Spain, and
Portugal. Millions enjoy summer along the Mediterranean Sea. Why in the world
would they want to leave the EU? Corbyn capitalised on this to push for social
democracy. Nordic countries have practiced social democracy for decades. They
lead in the measure of living standards globally. The economic gap between
neighbours is marginal. Everyone can afford to live in their type of Karen,
Muthaiga or Lavington like homes of Nairobi. They have no desire for terra nullius or land grabbing greed we
experience in Kenya.  The Tories had not got it right. What
pushed David Cameron out of office was not about fighting for an inclusive
Britain but fear of the future. Intolerance was the engine that was fueled fear
mongering. Had they painted a successful tapestry of Britons needs, they would
not have b­een bundled out of power. To prove the point, both Cameron and Tatton MP George Osborn quit
politics instead remaining in Westminster to defend the good values that make
Britain great.  The anti-establishment mood is growing
across Africa but for the wrong reasons. Elections never bring out the hidden
sentiments of voters. The fear of the unknown beckons. They see pandemonium as
in the poem of John Milton (1667) (Paradise Lost) portrayed on canvas by John
Martin (1823) giving a good analogy of a state called Hell ruled by the devil.
This Hell state expanded every minute. The 2017 election reminds voters of horrors
of 2007-08. Lives were lost and politicians do not see the point. The new crop
of politicians should give hope and unite Kenyans under common values of
development. Voters worry about counties and the
decentralised corruption. Governors have been accused of behaving like little
presidents in the counties. Money and power reveal pandemonium at its best. The
idea of the common good is a dream too far. The social democracy (not
socialism) in a capitalist driven economy is wanting. When their own are
accused of wrongdoing, the constituents delight in messianic type of gossip. We
are being finished. The middle class are even worse interpreting the common
good of everyone. They are called the Facebook addicts; blogging and offering
juicy tittle-tattle stories. They sit and laugh at nothing. During voting, they
take a holiday abroad. It is them who matter most not the common good.
Therefore, the global anti-establishment helps us reflect on this election, not
as a vindictive measure of the establishment but looking at who can work for
the common good of all Kenyans and preach the social democracy Nordic countries
practice for social transformation.   Nalugala is a professor of social transformation, Tangaza University Nairobi      