Sacked Sofapaka team manager Willis Waliaula has vowed to seek legal redress following his unceremonious dismissal on allegations of match-fixing. Waliaula came under fierce criticism following a Facebook post that linked him with doctoring of results in a SportPesa Premier League match against Western Stima at Narok County Stadium over the weekend. He claims the post, which read: “As long as they bring good offer on the table there is no problem”, was wrongly interpreted as fans claimed that Sofapaka allowed in easy goals to help the powermen to a 3-1 win. In reiteration to the claims laid on him, the former Harambee Stars and Tusker team manager maintained his innocence insisting that it was a welcome statement following rumours that betting firm Betway would take up the sponsorship of the GOtv Shield tournament following the expiry of their contract with Football Kenya Federation. “There are many claims going round but I remain innocent. I will try to get a lawyer and challenge the decision. Let them come with evidence that I was approached for the said match-fixing. I have served Sofapaka with dignity from the time they sought my services during the club licensing period and now I am surprised few individuals want to tarnish my name. I am confident the truth shall prevail,” said Waliaula. The dismissal letter sent to the team manager by the club’s secretary general Emmanuel Kayoyi read in part: “Please bear in mind that we are in receipt and aware of your statement that you sent to the media as at yesterday (Friday) at 13:05pm which stated as follows - ss long as they bring good offer on the table there is no problem. Please note you have bleached (sic) clause 1(1) and 6 in the contract agreement which says that: (a) He should not defame the name of Sofapaka FC neither shall he talk to the press or third parties whatsoever in any manner that may affect the image of the club without consent from the relevant authorities. (b) If the team manager is found guilty of serious, persistent misconduct, he will be liable for suspension or dismissed forthwith. The management is hereby forced to dismiss you with immediate effect from today (Saturday) without pay until further notice.”