Kenya has reached a boiling point and the situation will spill over if election laws are changed before the presidential rerun, NASA says. This was the message repeated yesterday when NASA leaders and supporters took to the streets of Mombasa town. They called for major reforms at the IEBC to ensure a free and fair presidential rerun.  They also demanded that election laws not be amended to limit Supreme Court powers and those of the IEBC chairman. They chanted “No reforms, no election.” The demonstrations were largely peaceful. There were no reports of beatings by police or use of tear gas. The NASA team said its irreducible minimum demands have to be met before it takes part in the election on October 26. Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir said it was shameful for President Uhuru Kenyatta to claim no one has a monopoly on violence, adding that Jubilee has the monopoly. Uhuru referred to NASA’s countywide protests on Mondays and Fridays called by flagbearer Raila Odinga. “Our intent is not bloodshed. Uhuru’s proxies are blood-hungry,” Nassir said. NASA wants IEBC Chief Executive Officer Ezra Chiloba and other key officials removed from office. Nassir said Kenya is being radicalised by the consequences of bad leadership, dictatorship, anti-judiciary threats and attempts to impose lifetime leadership through change of laws. Uhuru rudely rebuked as wakora Chief Justice David Maraga, DCJ Philomena Mwilu and Justices Smokin Wanjala and Isaac Leonala after they nullified his announced victory. Nassir said there is consternation over Jubilee’s determination to overturn electoral reforms, and pretend that its proposed changes are progressive reforms. The reforms — which Jubilee now wants to reform — were gained after bloody street protests last year. Likoni MP Mishi Mboko said the gains in election process should not be reversed. She said an amendment that any IEBC commissioner can chair and declare presidential results is a recipe for chaos. “The Constitution must be followed. The proposed changes have far-reaching negative effects,” Mboko said. She said just like other African dictators, Uhuru’s rule will end. “We’ve had so many of them. The people eventually removed them. People power can’t be defeated.”