It has now been one and a half years since I arrived in Kenya on my current tour of duty. In that time, I have been fortunate in that I was able to travel to various interesting places in Kenya, experience and enjoy the unique tastes of each region, and spend time talking to many Kenyan people from all walks of life. During these travels and conversations, I was always left with a feeling that this is a magnificent country, and that the people of Kenya are a great people. I am no longer a young man. I am over 60 years old. All the same, I felt compelled to take a trip to climb Mt Kenya, and see what view of the country is offered from the peak of that famous mountain. So, I took a week’s holiday and set off on my journey. I traveled in a party of nine, which included a friend, a cook, a guide and some porters. I was deeply impressed by my guide, David, who later told me it was his dream to be the first Kenyan to scale the summit of Mt Everest — the world’s highest peak. Mt Kenya stands at 5,199 metres. That is no easy climb. And although we successfully accomplished our goal of climbing right up to the Lenana summit, by the time we got there, we were greatly affected by altitude sickness and could barely manage to take one step at a time. We had reached the limit of our physical strength and were overwhelmed and fatigued, because of the rarefied atmosphere usually found at that great height. But in the end, it was all worth it. The view from the top is a wonder to behold. The mountain ranges illuminated by the rising sun, and the sea of clouds that lay beneath us, provided for a breathtakingly beautiful scene. Gazing on that unforgettable scene, I realised that Kenya’s tourism resources are not only means of enhancing the GDP, but are also a global treasure. From that height, it was dazzlingly clear to me that Kenya has great potential and that this beauty is a source of vitality to all Kenyan people. And that I had to share this fantastic experience and the beauty of Kenya with people all over the world, through our homepage of the Embassy of Japan in Kenya, and on YouTube. I also hope that my journey to the top of Mt Kenya will play a role in the promotion of Kenya’s tourism and inspire those who read this article or look at the Facebook account, to try and make a trip to Mt Kenya. From the very next day, I felt energised to give everything I had in promoting the friendship between Kenya and Japan. This friendship has existed for many decades now. Our bilateral diplomatic relations started just after the independence of Kenya in 1963, so we have been enjoying a firm relationship for half a century now. This partnership is built on friendship, shared values and interests. Over this period, Japan has provided support of over Sh600 billion to Kenya, as development assistance. This amounts to assistance of over Sh11 billion every year, constantly, for half a century. Kenya is currently the largest recipient of Japanese assistance in sub-Saharan Africa. The expansion of Ngong Road, which is set to ease urban transport within Nairobi, and the Olkaria Geothermal power plant, which introduced world-class, cutting-edge technology to Kenya’s energy sector, are but two examples of our desire to see great improvements in Kenya’s public infrastructure. But we also seek to play an active role in the Kenyan economy, which is driven by the private sector. The best example of this is the Dongo Kundu Special Economic Zone of Mombasa, currently under construction. This, along with the upgrading of Mombasa port and related infrastructure projects, is a major national project, which is expected to create more than 27,000 jobs. However, the event that highlighted more than anything else the friendly relations between our two countries was the TICAD VI conference, which took place in Nairobi last year, as the first ever to be hosted on the African continent. It brought together all top-level stakeholders in African development, including African heads of states. Working together, we were able to make TICAD VI a tremendous success. I conclude by saying that any investment Japan makes in Kenya for the land and the people of Kenya is not for short-term profit. We always have in mind the need to prioritise long-term investment for human resource, as this is what has been the key to our own economic success in Japan.