Kenya Cup champions KCB open their title defence against Stratahmore Leos on November 25. The five-time champions travel to Kisii on December 2 in their second match before taking on Blak Blad. The bankers face former champions Nakuru on December 16 in what is expected to be a thriller. In season opening fixtures, last year’s runners up Kabras meet Mwamba at the Kakamega show ground while last season’s losing semifinalists Homeboyz and Quins face off at Jamhuri Park show ground. Impala have a date against Mombasa Sports Club while Nakuru entertain newcomers Kisii RFC as Blak Blad host Nondies at Kenyatta University. The league will take a Christmas and new year break and resume on January 13th with the playoffs slated for March 3, semifinals on March 10th and final on March 17. The top two teams have home semi-finals while the next four teams advance to the playoffs to qualify for the semis. The 2017 -2018 Kenya Cup season will be played on one off format to accommodate the late start of national Sevens circuit and early kickoff of next year’s Rugby World Cup qualifiers. The season will take 15 weeks. Last season saw 12 Kenya Cup teams being pooled into two conferences of six teams with teams playing each other in the conference, then shifting to play the other teams from other conference as the season progressed—culminating in a 19-week season. Elsewhere, the 2017 edition of Impala Floodlit will kick-off on November 5 at Impala Club. Impala Floodies will, as usual run for three weeks with the semis set for November 11 and the finals on November 18. Kenya Cup will kick-off a week later. This year, the Impala Floodlit will feature age-group category, women’s category, universities category and all senior teams in the Kenya Rugby. There will be no high school category since most of the schools will have closed by then. The hosts are the defending champions after edging out KCB 33-32 in 2016. Laiser Hill Academy beat Ofafa Jericho to win the schools category, Menengai Oilers picked the varsities title with a 24-16 win over Blak Blad II while Homeboyz won the Plate after beating Strathmore Leos 22-18.