IEBC will announce the fate of the suspended polls tomorrow Sunday. Chairman Wafula Chebukati on Saturday said the commission is deliberating on key issues concerning the polls and will give a report the following day. He said the commission had resolved to suspend the polls after they were notified all the election materials had not not arrived in the said areas. Chebukati said the move was also occasioned by the fact that the lives of their staffs were in danger. The areas affected included Alego Usonga, Awendo, Bondo, Gem, Ugenya, Homa Bay Town, Kabondo, Karachuonyo, Kasipul, Kisumu Central, Kisumu East, Kisumu West, and Muhoroni. Ndhiwa, Suba North, Nyakach, Nyatike, Rongo, Rarieda, Suba South, Suna East, Suna West, Nyando, Seme, Uhuru, and Ugunja were also affected. Read:IEBC postpones elections in Nyanza, to announce new date But the chairman said the commission has all infrastructure in place and all materials are ready for the polls but due to security reasons, the commission would not take any chances. He said the commission has statutory seven days before announcing the winner of the repeat election and with a couple of days, the commission can still manage to conduct the suspended polls. Chebukati said the commission cannot determine at this point whether it will go ahead and announce the winner before conducting the remaining polls or whether it has to hold until the entire exercise is conducted. Also Read:Homa Bay calm after Nyanza elections pushed In regards to contradicting information about the voter turnout, Chebukati strongly defended a tweet he had posted earlier indicating that close to 6.5 million registered voters had cast their votes a translation to 48 percent. But in their portal the results streaming in had indicated that more than 7 million voters had already voted. "We urge the public to ignore the fake news doing rounds on social media about the voter turn out. Those are fake and unverified results. Actual results are announced here at Bomas which is the National Tallying Centre," He said. Chebukati said,"It is true we had communicated that 6.5 million Kenyans had voted. This information relied on the number of KIEMS that had keyed in data which was tabulated at the said time". He said the 48 percent turn out was arrived at by calculating number of people identified by the KIEMS dividing it with the total number of registered people in the said polling stations. Chebukati said so far 37,161 forms 34A's and 250 34B's have been transmitted at Bomas and verification is ongoing to come up with forms 34C's before official announcement. Commissioner  Guliye in charge of ICT said the transmission process has been slow because the commission has to wait for scanned forms 34B's from constituencies. He said as compared to August election where text data was transmitted basing on actual counts of votes for each individual, the App on the KIEMS gadgets had been deactivated due to additional candidates on the ballot. He said there wasn't time to reconfigure the gadgets. "Transmission from polling stations is not accurate because some voters are identified biometrically while others by their ID cards. we cannot therefore rely on the kits but scanned forms 34B's," he said.    