The Sh470 million set aside in the 2017/2018 financial year to provide free sanitary pads to school girls from January next year will be coordinated by the ministry of Public Service Youth and Gender affairs. This is a shift from previously when the Ministry of Education coordinated the distribution that began in 2011 and meant to benefit girls from the poor families. The change has been attributed to a new law that came to force in June aiming to provide all school girls with sanitary pads so as to minimize absenteeism and putting them at par with their male counterparts. The programme will cost Kenya 500 million shillings a year, expanding on a 2011 programme giving pads to girls from poor families. The ministry will be in charge of procurement, distribution and ensuring proper disposal of the sanitary pads in the schools. Speaking to the Star on Thursday, Kenya National Union of Teachers secretary general Wilson Sossion said the union was still waiting for a comprehensive report explaining why the shift occurred. “If the reason behind the shift is compelling then we will support the move, but if there is a fault then we will then comment on the right measures we will recommend,” Sossion said. His Kenya Primary Schools Head Association Chair counterpart Indimuli Kahi however, said he had not received information on the shift. School heads who spoke with the Star raised concern over fear that distribution of the pads could experience challenges citing protocol challenges. “The chain of command from the new ministry chiefs to school heads could disrupt effective distribution as the head teachers do not report to the Gender Ministry,” a teacher in Rongai said. Since 2011, the Kenyan government has been budgeting about Sh300million each year to distribute free sanitary pads in schools in low-income communities and has been targeting girls in schools located in 82 former districts chosen from among slums and arid areas. Equally, a school’s location as per the National Poverty Index determined whether its pupils received the government-funded pads. However, the amount of money set aside for the pads is expected to shoot up exponentially. From July 7, when an amendment to the Basic Education Act came into effect, it is now compulsory for the government to provide sanitary pads to all girls in primary and secondary schools. Data from the Ministry of Education indicates that a girl absent from school for four days in 28 days (month) loses 13 learning days equivalent to two weeks of learning in every school term. In an academic year (nine months) a girl loses 39 learning days equivalent to six weeks of learning time. Kenya repealed its value added tax on pads and tampons in 2004 to lower the price consumers pay.