The International Center for Policy and Conflict calls upon the IEBC to exercise its constitutional powers and call off the repeat presidential election on October 26. Under Constitution Article 88, the superintendence, direction and control of preparation of electoral rolls and conduct of all elections are vested in the Commission. It must invoke these powers and call off the rerun. The IEBC must provide satisfactory conditions to all parties for a level playing field in strict observation of the Supreme Court decision.   It will be suicidal to proceed with an election having deep deficits of credibility, inclusivity and integrity. It will be tragically reckless for the IEBC to hold a poll in a highly polarised toxic environment, both ethnically and politically. It can only conduct an election in this environment if its objective is to plunge the country into civil war.   It is fundamental that when elections are credible, free and fair, they promote democracy, human rights and security. But when they are fraudulent, they trigger political instability.Thus, the integrity of elections is cardinal. An election with integrity produces government with legitimate authority to govern. The electoral process leading to Election Day must enjoy the highest degree of confidence among all Kenyans. However, now it enjoys the lowest level of public confidence, legitimacy and trust.  In nullifying the election, the Court ordered IEBC to conduct fresh election in accordance with Article 140 of the Constitution, which appallingly it proceeded to disregard and opted for Article 138. When the Court invalidated the election, IEBC was expected to hold fresh election starting with fresh nominations, consistent with the Constitution and electoral laws.  It has emerged since the nullification that IEBC has messed up the entire process of holding a fresh credible election by sidestepping crucial legal requirements and procedures. There is also withdrawal of a candidate on the basis that IEBC has completely failed to respect and hold an election in accordance with direction of the Court and Constitution. It is foolhardy to go on with an election where a candidate commanding almost half the country is excluded. Finally, it is important in this pre-election period that the rule of law and human rights are respected and the State builds a truly inclusive and resilient democracy, the foundation for durable economic and social development. Ndung'u Wainaina is  Executive Director of International Center for Policy and Conflict,ICPC