There was a large voter turnout in Kirinyaga where President Uhuru Kenyatta got close to 290,000 votes in the four constituencies. In Kirinyaga Central, Uhuru got 64,127 while NASA's Raila Odinga, who withdrew from the poll, got 115 votes.  Alliance for Real Change candidate Abduba Dida garnered 28 votes while Joe Nyaga managed 18 in the repeat race to State House on Thursday. In Ndia constituency, the President got 55,834 and Raila 93, while in Gichugu, he garnered 71,982 votes and the Opposition leader 81. In Mwea, Uhuru got 101,433 and Raila 14. In the run up to the repeat election, Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru led a team of politicians, including those who lost the August 8 vote, in campaigning for the Jubilee Party leader. The team mobilised resources and held a funds drive that raised Sh50 million for campaigns. Waiguru sang Uhuru's praises alongside former Governor Joseph Ndathi, Senator Charles Kibiru, MPs from all four sub-counties and MCAs. Woman representative Wangui Ngirici paid bus fare for voters who travelled from Nairobi. The leaders also held door to door campaigns and took caravans to major highways. Come election day, heavy rainfall did not deter residents from going to cast their ballots. Ndathi thanked supporters for going to vote and urged the NASA leader to accept defeat and let the country move forward. The former Governor, who spoke at Rukenya Primary School polling center, said voters are tired of the lengthy electioneering period. More on vote: In Kenya election re-run, polling incomplete and next steps uncertain Also read: Low turnout taints Uhuru victory in election re-run Raila has changed NASA into a national resistance movement and has insisted that the IEBC must undergo an overhaul. He said he will work with the people to protect the constitution. The presidential candidate, who withdrew over irregularities and an "unqualified" IEBC, asked his charged supporters to stay away from polling stations on Thursday. "We will convene and agree on a way to ensure that a fresh free and fair election is organised within 90 days. We call upon our supporters not to vote and to convince their neighbours not to take part in the poll because it is a Jubilee election," he said at Uhuru Park in Nairobi. More on this: Raila transforms NASA into resistance movement, plans goods boycott  