WAS a former female legistlator sent to go and threaten ex-IEBC Commissioner Roselyn Akombe? Well, sources whisper to Corridors that the woman gave a chilling message that Akombe secretly recorded before she fled to the US. It’s said the woman told Akombe to her face that if she is murdered, there would be a few demonstrations in her Nyamira home county and press conferences here and there by the opposition and civil society but life would move on. She is alleged to have asked her to stop pushing the government too much. But even after she left Kenya, it’s whispered that a Kenyan diplomat is still on her case. Corridors hear that the diplomat is using his connections to seek Akombe’s dismissal from the UN.  *****     A Principal Secretary faces an integrity issue after he failed to pay a broker who helped him cut a deal with a well-known activist.  We are told that the PS asked the broker to find a way of getting the activist to drop a case he had filed in court. The three agreed on a fee of Sh10 million, Sh8 million being the money for the activist and Sh2 million for the broker. It is understood that the activist was paid and he withdrew the case. No sooner had the case been withdrawn than the PS refused to pay the broker the agreed fee. The broker has reported the matter to the EACC.  *****    A young and ambitious Principal Secretary from Mt Kenya is trending for the wrong reasons. The man, who has already declared his interest in a political seat in the 2022 polls, is trending for dating a young girl from college. He then took her into Jubilee campaigns, besides importing a car for her that is still at the port. All this in exchange for getting his fantasies realised. The girl has been bragging about it until early this week, when she met the wrath of the PS’s sister, a nominated MCA. Sources tell Corridors the college girl has gone into hiding after being beaten senseless.  *****    THERE are many ways of killing a rat, so the saying goes. It’s whispered that some Jubilee legislators who failed in the last election have taken the saying literally. Sources whisper to Corridors that the former legislators – one of whom was seeking a job in a county government – is looking for all loopholes to eat money from Jubilee. They are engaged in JP’s diplomatic offensive and are also part of some lobby groups. One of them says if you cannot take a strong man’s sword when he is on the ground, you can’t do it when he gets up.  