Suicide as a health complication can no longer be kept on the taboo or crime list. It can no longer be hidden in the closet.The spectrum of suicidal behaviour merits professional intervention rather than punishment. This spectrum ranges from fleeting wishes of death, suicidal urges, planning, attempted suicide and in many unfortunate instances , death. A proper understanding of origins of suicidal behaviour is crucial in opening the path to appropriate help for the affected In many parts of Kenya, suicide remains a taboo topic. Our traditional laws and regulations that concern suicide unwittingly lead to discrimination and stigmatization of suicide survivors. In certain instances those who die of suicide have their bodies flogged in ritual humiliation and in some cases are buried outside the compound. Corporal punishment of suicide survivors is also not uncommon. Perhaps this was designed to deter people by all means from contemplating suicide. Such practices were at one point nearly universal but changing scientific knowledge provides impetus for cultural change. The world health organization (WHO) estimates that over 800,000 people die of suicide annually with over 75% of these deaths occurring in low and middle income countries most of which are to be found in Asia and Africa. It is also known that the poorest countries have the highest treatment gap with regard to mental illness. Otherwise put, 3 out 4 of people who need treatment for mental disorders have no access to such treatment. Suicide is both a global and local problem. Local research conducted by our own experts show high levels of suicidal behaviour in Kenya. A research led by ProfLukoyeAtwoli, professor of Psychiatry at Moi university, in western Kenya revealed thatupto 16% of the respondents reported having attempted suicide. This translates to one in six and mirrors a similar research conducted by Prof. Emilio Ovuga of Guluuniversity in Uganda which revealed that one in seven people will attempt suicide in their lifetime. It is therefore not surprising to see that hardly a day passes without a reported suicide coming up in the media.  Suicide is a local problem in Kenya because the factors known to contribute to suicide are abundantly present. These include mental disorders, difficulties in accessing healthcare, availability of means to suicide, inappropriate media reporting of suicide, wars, abuse, financial losses and family history of suicide. A common myth in Kenya is that suicide is a curse that runs through the family. Such a false belief reduces the willingness of family members to take their kin who have survived suicide to hospital. However a family history of suicide is a factor that can lead to suicide not as a curse but through factors such as mental illnesses whose occurrence is influenced by genetics. Failure to understand suicide could partly be attributed to low levels of mental health literacy. Two out of three of all people with depression have no knowledge that they have a treatable illness. This people will suffer distress and employ inappropriate coping mechanisms that worsen their condition and in some cases lead to suicide. More than 90% of all deaths by suicide have an underlying mental health problems. Suicidal behaviour is commonly linked to mental disorders such as depression, anxiety, schizophrenia, bipolar mood disorder and substance abuse.There is however no single or simple factor that can sufficiently explain the development of suicidal behaviour. Studies have established that over 80% of those who die of suicide made a previous attempt and many of them at least talked about it. In our Kenyan society people who express their feelings with regard to ending their lives are easily dismissed as jokers, attention seekers and weak. Those around them will loudly wonder why anyone would want to die when living is such a great pleasure. What many of us do not grasp is that even those who have suicidal feelings would want to live and when they speak about ending their lives, they are crying for help. We must therefore listen to them with empathy and help them to access mental health services. Time has also come for Kenya to decriminalise suicide. Attempted suicide is a crime under article 226 of the penal code and is punishable with not moref imprisonment. This exposes persons who on account of illness develop suicidal behaviour to a double tragedy. On one hand they suffer the distress of mental ill-health as well as the punishment meted on them by the courts or society. Many countries in the developed world have decriminalized suicide and improved their mental health services. Needless to say, such countries have fewer rates of suicide than where suicide is criminal. Kenya has a high suicide prevalence rate of 15.58 and is ranked 29thworld wide. Many of the countries that have a higher suicide rate than Kenya are in Africa and their laws punish suicidal behavior. With the understanding that suicidal behavior is a consequence of mental ill-health, punishing a suicide survivor is no different from punishing a person who limps after sustaining a fracture of a leg.