Last week's fresh presidential election was neither credible nor fair, lobby group Haki Africa has said. The group said it is difficult to verify results showing President Uhuru Kenyatta won the election. IEBC data showed Uhuru was leading at over 7.5 million votes ahead of the 3pm declaration. More on this: IEBC to declare Uhuru president-elect without Nyanza numbers In its preliminary findings, Haki Africa also said the October 26 election was hampered the moment NASA leader Raila Odinga withdrew. The ODM leader cited lack of reforms in the electoral commission to guarantee a credible outcome. The lobby group further said other candidates were accorded a portfolio which dented their chances of winning the competition. Haki Africa CEO Hussein Khalid said Jubilee had undue advantage over the other parties in the election. "It used state resources - specifically state officers including Cabinet Secretary - during their campaigns," he said in Mombasa on Monday. "Therefore, our assessment is that the elections were not fair," Khalid told journalists at the group's office. He noted IEBC operations were shrouded in mystery because political parties were not present to oversee the election. Jubilee was the only party that had agents, but not in all polling stations. NASA had none because they announced they would not take part in a "charade" disguised as an election. Whereas Raila said the Thursday event was a "Jubilee selection", it is not clear why other candidates did not send agents. "There were no agents to confirm for example that ballot boxes were empty at the time of sealing," Khalid said. Further, the results announced by IEBC at polling stations could not be ascertained by different party agents, he noted. Questions about the number of people who voted and if indeed Uhuru garnered more than seven million votes have been raised. Raila claimed only 3.5 million voters turned up adding that IEBC was scurrying to add votes to hit eight million to justify August results. The nullified election saw Uhuru get 8.2 million votes against Raila's 6.7 million. Khalid said there was a general drop in the voter turnout by over 70 per cent, consequently affecting the votes participants got. Haki Africa, however, said the election was free because people were given opportunity to participate. "Despite the obvious issues that led to one of the main contenders withdrawing, actual voting did take place," he said. The executive director said polls at the Coast were reasonably peaceful, save for Bangladesh where youth protested. "Even when the youth protested, they were allowed to do so peacefully with police watching from distance," he said. Read: Siaya leaders laugh off IEBC's plan to inaugurate Uhuru