Menengai Oilers quartet of Harold Anduvati, Sam Muregi, Derrick Kegoya and Eric Ombasa lead the newcomers to the squad of 42 picked at the end of the national sevens series circuit. Oilers were one of the most competitive teams on the circuit and reached the Kabeberi Sevens final, losing 22-5 to Impala. Most Valuable Player of the circuit, Mark Kwemoi of Impala joins the squad alongside Blak Blad duo of Brian Waihenya and Levy Amunga as well as  the impressive Dominic Asino of Kabras. Nakuru’s Monate Akwei, Herman Humwa (Quins), Arthur Owira (KCB), Richard Sidindi (Impala), Lucas Opal (Strathamore) and Mwamba’s Daniel Taabu also got the nod from the selectors. Felix Ayange of Kabras returns to the side after a three-year absence. Shaban Ahmed of KCB, who has had an outstanding season missed out on a place in the provisional squad. Ahmed was MVP at the Driftwood, Dala and Prinsloo Sevens. Regulars Andrew Amonde, Collins Injera, Oscar Ouma, Eden Agero were also included. The 42-man squad will be trimmed to 26 with 18 players getting one year contracts for the upcoming World Sevens Series, Commonwealth Games and Rugby World Cup Sevens while eight will be handed over to the academy select side and will also feature at select satellite invitational tournaments next year. Director of Rugby Thomas Odundo said the selected squad is a good mix of experienced and young players following a competitive national evens circuit. “I would say the past Sevens circuit has been the most competitive and the talent pool is good. I wish the players called up the very best,” said Odundo. Squad Props: Andrew Amonde (KCB), Harold  Anduvati (Oilers), Herman Humwa (Quins), Ian Minjire (Impala), Martin Owilla (KCB), Oscar Ouma (Nakuru), Charles Omondi (Homeboyz), Dan Sikuta (Kabras), Elkeans Musonye (Strathmore), Derrick Mayar (Impala), Arthur Owira (KCB), Frank Wanyama (Quins), Jeff Oluoch (Homeboyz), Monate Akwei (Nakuru), Richard Sidindi(Impala), Bush Mwale (Homeboyz) Scrumhalves: Brian Tanga (Kabras), Collins Injera (Mwamba), Dominic Osino (Kabras), Michael Wanjala (Homeboyz), Sam Onsomu (Impala), Brian Waihenya (Blak Blad) Flyhalves: Eden Agero (Quins), Mark Kwemoi(Impala), Felix Ayange (Kabras), Leonard Mugaisi (Homeboyz), Daniel Taabu (Mwamba), Levi Amunga (Blak Blad) Centres: Eric Ombasa (Oiler), Oscar Ayodi(Homeboyz), David Ambunya (Quins), Lucas Opal (Strathmore), Samuel Motari  (Impala), Samuel Oliech (Impala), Billy Odhiambo (Mwamba), Willy Ambaka (Manawatu), Alex Olaba (Strathmore), Dennis Ombachi (Nondies), Jacob Ojee (KCB), Nelson Oyoo (Nakuru), Sam Muregi (Oilers), Derrick Keyoga (Oilers).