World 5,000m champion Hellen Obiri is Kenya’s best StarTimes Sports Personality for the Month of August.  Obiri beat stiff competition from world 1,500 champion Faith Kipyegon, world marathon champion Geoffrey Kirui, world 3,000m steeplechase champion Conseslus Kipruto and Wiyeta Girls Secondary School keeper Diana Tembesi to be crowned the winner, as voted by Sports journalists. Obiri won the world 5,000m gold medal in 14:34.87 ahead of Ayana.  The sports personality of the month awards is a partnership between StarTimes Kenya and Sports Journalists Association of Kenya (SJAK) to reward all deserving sports personalities on a monthly basis in a bid to bolster the general performance of sport in the country as well as whip up the enthusiasm of Kenya’s sports men and women. \ Obiri expressed her exhilaration for being named the August Sports Personality of the month “This award comes as a surprise to me. I thank StarTimes and SJAK for recognising my efforts. I urge Kenyans to keep on voting for me for the IAAF Female Athlete of the Year Award and I hope I will scoop the award.” SJAK President Chris Mbaisi lauded Obiri’s efforts in August and challenged other sports personalities to work hard in their respective disciplines. “Obiri has been outstanding athlete who displayed grandeur exploits in August World Championships. With the exit of Vivian Cheruiyot to marathon, she has lived to the billing and expectations of the athletics fraternity. I challenge other sports personalities to work hard in their areas since the decoration cuts across all sports disciplines apart from football.” StarTimes director of marketing and public relations, Japhet Akhulia commended Obiri for doing the country proud during the world championships. “Congratulations to Hellen Obiri. She made the country proud and it is therefore commendable that the sports journalists have singled her out as the best sports performer in the month of August. As a company, we are committed towards more of these efforts that will motivate our sportsmen and women to do better,” noted Akhulia.  Obiri received this award as a pleasant surprise at her training ground based in Ngong while on her routine training.  Obiri becomes the second winner of the award after deaflympian Simon Cherono who clinched the July title. She walked home with a 40 inch Startimes digital television, a cash prize worth Sh100, 000 and a trophy. Obiri crowned her season by lifting the IAAF Diamond Trophy after winning the 5000m race.