Countless times in recent weeks, NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga has cut out a pathetic and forlorn figure of a general isolated by his lieutenants, seemingly weak and incapable of preventing the exodus of former allies.  The general looks more and more isolated and vulnerable than anyone could have imagined. The veil of invincibility has been lifted. Just two years ago, the “Enigma of Kenyan politics” seemed invincible. Raila’s problems in Maasailand are self-inflicted, somehow a product of his poor judgement and ego. For him, the Maasai have always been a loyal constituent he could rely on, and he had every reason to. Let me put this into perspective. Historically, past regimes have neglected the Maasai region in terms of development and resource allocation. The community rightly felt marginalised and Raila, being a shrewd politician, knew when to make hay. With that context in mind, Jubilee Party understood the need for a different approach to sway the Maasai to its fold — win the hearts and minds of the community, then seek their votes.  The first approach was to examine the needs and aspirations of the community, which were ‘neglected’ by the previous regimes. How a government responds to that challenge is deeply revealing. The community witnessed the standard gauge railway cutting through the counties of Kajiado and Narok, bringing with it employment opportunities for their children. The government embarked on the construction of the Maralal-Rumuruti road, which will link Samburu county to the rest of the country. These, among other notable initiatives, were projects the community could see and feel their impact. The thinkers and strategists for the opposition never really deciphered the outcome of the 2013 election, which could have laid bare the changing political dynamics among the Maa. They chose to retain the status quo — an inevitable failure — and an unforced strategic blunder. Jubilee on the other hand looked at the voting data; the party had managed to grab the governor seats in Samburu and Narok counties, the majority of MP and MCA seats, despite the presidential vote going to the opposition. Kajiado was the only Maa county that went to the opposition as a whole. Looking at the elements, it was clear the new crop of youthful leaders had crafted a winning message and strategy. On the other hand, Raila remained with the usual foot soldiers and the usual message of marginalisation. His foot soldiers, most of whom lost in 2013, remained his lieutenants: One would have thought the party would do things differently, maybe promote younger and bolder leaders with fresh ideas. This never materialised, and the calamitous outcome manifested itself in this year’s General Election. Save for Narok Senator Ledama ole Kina and Kajiado Central MP Elijah Memusi, none of the current crop of leaders is aligned to the opposition. The nullified presidential election exposed the opposition leader’s failings. The weakness of Raila’s position is highlighted by the two things that he will be trying to do if at all he remains on the ballot. One is to label the leaders, who have left his stable, as self-seeking individuals who do not represent the aspirations of the community. These announcements will surely be followed by others. Yet, I am of the greatest conviction that they will all fall short. The second will be to rally the Maasai youths to take part in the countrywide anti-IEBC demonstrations. Remarkably, none of these demonstrations occurred in Maasailand. These demonstrations have seemingly done more harm than good to Raila’s cause.  The idea of the demonstrations uniting Raila’s political base have fallen short and the opposition has failed to notice that not only did Jubilee isolate him from his former leaders, it has also successfully isolated him from the general Maasai populace. Raila can no longer inspire the enthusiasm of the Maa. His authority over the Maasai is seemingly now broken. This is how a political life ends: Nothing else will matter or be remembered other than the fact that Raila played with the political goodwill of the Maasai to his final detriment. The community is no longer susceptible to the populist agenda. They are looking for inclusion, prosperity and fresh ideas to tackle 21st Century problems. While he became complacent, Jubilee was quick to capitalise on and expose his weakness. The NASA captain is weak, vulnerable and remains exposed. His own lieutenants can smell blood; the time is ripe for takeover. Raila misjudged the careful calculations the new crop of Maasai leaders had made. In the end, he has all but himself to blame.                              