On Monday last week, envoys, including US Ambassador Robert Godec and British Deputy High Commissioner Susie Kitchens, gave a stern warning to Kenyan politicians regarding the October 26 repeat presidential election.  They said failing to hold the repeat polls as planned could plunge the country into a constitutional crisis. They urged NASA and Jubilee to drop some of their demands and compromise, arguing that most of the requests cannot be met due to time constraints. UK High Commissioner Nic Hailey talked to the Star about the political impasse, the terror attacks in the UK and bilateral relations with Kenya. Q1: Do you think the nullification of the presidential election results was an indictment of the observers and the envoys who endorsed them? A: The UK, and the international
community, have always been clear that we support Kenya’s constitution and its
institutions. I think there has been some misunderstanding of observers’ roles. They can speak of what they have seen and make recommendations on
how the process can be improved, as they did in August.  But they don’t declare the results of
the elections — that’s for the IEBC — or decide whether they pass the test set
out in the constitution — that’s for the Supreme Court. We support
those institutions as they do their work, and so should everyone. When it
was clear that the opposition had serious concerns about the August 8 election,
we made clear that the way to address these was to go to court. Now
the court has ruled, it is essential that Kenya holds a fresh election within
the constitutional timetable, and that leaders on both sides act with goodwill
and give the IEBC the space it needs to deliver on that. Q2: Hours after the Supreme Court ruling on September
1, 24 envoys said the IEBC has the ability to conduct the rerun, even before any reforms were made. Do you still stand
by this? A: Kenya’s constitution is clear that
the IEBC is the only institution that can run an election, and that a rerun
should be within 60 days of the Supreme Court ruling. So it remains my view
that the IEBC must run the new election within 60 days, in line with the
constitution. Chairman Wafula Chebukati was clear following the Supreme Court
ruling that changes needed to be made in processes and personnel
for the presidential rerun. It’s for the IEBC to decide what those
should be, not me or any other diplomat or indeed any political party. Q3: You said in a local TV talk show, “Institutions
are precious and need to be respected.” So what is your take on the attacks by the executive and the ruling party on the judiciary after the ruling?  A: Kenya’s Supreme
Court, in making its judgment on the elections, made a powerful statement about
the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary. Strong, independent
institutions are central to Kenya’s democracy and should be respected. I
continue to call on all Kenyans to respect justices in doing their
constitutionally mandated work. I make the same call in respect of the IEBC, as
the institution mandated to run the elections under the constitution. Q4: Britain has experienced at least five terror attacks this year. Why do you think the UK and Europe are facing this upsurge in attacks? A: The terror attacks that have taken place in the UK this year have tragically led to loss of life and injury. I have been touched by the support the UK has received from so many Kenyans in response. As two countries, we stand together in the fight against terrorism. It is difficult to understand why terrorists feel the need to kill innocent people. For most of us, this is something we could never understand. But the UK authorities are working hard to keep the UK safe, through their efforts at home and internationally. Working internationally to tackle terrorism is essential; it remains a UK priority, and a priority for the British High Commission here in Kenya. It is only through working together and sharing our experiences that we can effectively respond to this threat. Q5: The UK has in the past issued travel advisories to its nationals due to the terror threat in Kenya, despite the UK also being a victim. Do you agree with critics that this is killing Kenya's tourism industry? A: Thousands of Britons come to Kenya as tourists every year. Helping them stay safe is important, and that means the British government needs to advise them about particular risks, as we do in any country. But we’re also keen to help mitigate those risks, working with Kenya’s national and devolved governments and tourism industry to do so. That is why we’ve been supporting enhanced security on Kenya’s coast in particular.  Q6: What progress is being made in joint efforts to build greater security in Somalia, South Sudan and the Great Lakes region, and to tackle the spread of violent extremism? A: The challenge posed by insecurity in Kenya’s neighbours remains a real one, but we are making progress. I welcome the regional leadership role Kenya is playing in tackling instability; we’ll continue to support you in doing so.  On Somalia, the UK hosted an international conference in May, which President Kenyatta attended. At that conference, the international community recommitted to tackling insecurity in Somalia. Here in Kenya, we’re putting that into action, by helping with the training of brave KDF forces before they deploy to Amisom. We’re also supporting the security services in Somalia to build their capacity, so that Somalia can take responsibility for its own security in the longer term. The recent 4th anniversary of the horrific Westgate attack, and the terror attacks we’ve faced in the UK, reinforce the importance of standing together in the fight against terror. We’ll continue to do so, working closely with the Kenyan government to share best practices and build capacity to counter the shared threat posed by violent extremism. Q7: We had attacks on White-owned ranches in Laikipia
county and British nationals have been victims. Does the UK have a preferred presidential candidate to protect the
interests of its nationals in these areas, and how do you think this issue
can be solved? A: We have never
had a preferred candidate in these elections, and that remains the case. Respect for
property rights matters for Kenya’s long-term prosperity. So does
security for everyone. The land invasions in Laikipia are in nobody’s
interests. They did not just affect British nationals, but also a
large number of Kenyans, as well as other international investors. Kenya needs
security for people and for land tenure as a foundation for economic
development. We will work with any new government with the aim of
ensuring this, in the interests of all Kenyans. Q8: A document
purportedly from the British government recently did the rounds on social media but turned out to be fake news. How best can this emerging threat be handled to protect the integrity of
institutions and the media? A lot of fake
news has circulated in recent months and weeks. None of us can single-handedly
deal with this problem, so we all have a responsibility to look at the news we
read, and to think before we believe or share it. There is lots of advice out
there on how to spot fake news: looking at the source, checking the author,
and considering whether something seems too outrageous, are key considerations. Anybody who spots
some potential fake news from the UK government can check this with us by
tweeting us or emailing our enquiries' inbox.  Q9. What strides has the UK made in partnering with Kenya to tackle poverty, improve education and health in the country? A: We’re committed to working with Kenya to further develop our commercial and development partnerships, and we’ve seen real progress in the last two years. On trade, Kenya is a regional powerhouse and gateway to the region. UK investors know this, and are already here employing over 200,000 Kenyans. We’ve had some great successes in developing that trading relationship further since I arrived. Particular highlights for me have included opening a new Mombasa branch of the British Chamber of Commerce, to bring together British and Kenyan businesses at the coast, and the recent signing of a deal for a new motorway between Nairobi and Mombasa, with significant UK investment. On development, too, we’re making progress. The UK is one of Kenya’s biggest donors, and we’re putting UKAid to good use here, to help Kenya develop for the future. That support ranges from funding the rebuild of key infrastructure like the Mombasa port, to educating 250,000 girls as we work to tackle gender inequality. So furthering these partnerships remains a UK commitment, and something I look forward to making more progress on. Q10. Since the start of your duty on December 8, 2015, how has your experience in this country been? A: Wonderful! Like the thousands of British tourists who visit Kenya each year, I have been struck by this country’s natural beauty — its countryside, its Coast, its mountains and its world famous, awe-inspiring wildlife. But other things about Kenya have really struck me, too. One is the emphasis Kenyans put on education and how you so publicly celebrate academic achievement. I am the son of two teachers, so this is something that resonates with me on a personal level.  Another is this country’s intense democratic spirit, something Kenya shares with the UK. A third is Kenya’s national pride, which I have witnessed numerous times, from my first trip on the new SGR train, to watching rugby or cricket in Nairobi. For all the talk of tribe and region, Kenyans are good at celebrating what they have in common, and getting behind their country.