For some time, I wanted to write about opera, which, for me, is the ultimate art form.  It combines it all: visual art, music, literature, singing, and even dance. The alchemy of all arts makes opera the extraordinary power that engages all our senses.  The opera stories range widely, from forbidden love, infidelity and revenge, to war and craving for power.  The opera’s passions are confronted with extraordinary situations and are carried away by heightened feelings burning with excess. The texts of the operas, libretto, are normally based on famous novels and poems and sung to impact on the meaning of the words.  There are different voices in opera, ranging from the highest-pitched to the lowest: soprano, mezzo-soprano, contralto for women; and tenor, baritone and bass for men. Moreover, voices can be characterised according to their power: light, lyric or dramatic. A ‘light’ voice reaches the high notes, a ‘dramatic’ voice is powerful. Voices are generally associated with types of roles: an experienced seductress would be sang by a mezzo soprano, an innocent and pure character would be played by a light soprano. The music is at the centre of any opera. It highlights the intensity of meaning and emotions. By playing with rhythms, tones, melodies, and nuances, composers use the music’s suggestive powers to create atmospheres that texts or visual art alone cannot create.  And the visuals — costumes, make up, lights and stage design — complete an opera.  The progress of digital technology and spectacular visual effects made opera stages extraordinary places. Not just an illustration of a work, opera visuals carry a concept, an idea.  Constantly reinventing ‘old’ operas, modern opera productions often transcend the actions to another era or situation. And this is exciting: before the curtain rises, nobody knows what will happen on the stage.   MY FAVOURITE OPERAS In the next series of my ‘How to Look at Art’ articles I am going to illustrate some of my favourite operas, which I got deeply involved with through painting the main characters at the Royal Opera House in London. My first opera is Così Fan Tutte. Translated from the Italian as ‘All women are like that’, it was composed by Mozart and first performed in Vienna, Austria, almost two centuries ago in 1790.  In the Royal Opera House’s production of the opera, the plot sets in our modern time. Baritone Thomas Allen, who pays a key character, Don Alfonzo, looks like he might be a high-flying ‘bankster’ of the City of London or Wall Street.  The old cynic speaks (on a mobile phone) “from the teacher’s chair”. He thinks of himself as the authority and the figure who alters the events. He commands: “Do everything I tell you.” He is an old cynic who does not believe in human sincerity, integrity, honesty and moral motivations. As part of the opera’s plot, he sets to prove to two young officers that their fiancées are incapable of fidelity, and through disguises and tricks, traps the young women into agreeing to marry other men.  When the young officers find it out, their dreams are bitterly disparaged. Don Alfonso laughs and asks them to accept the “truths” of human nature and “forget and forgive”.  Although “everyone is wiser now”, the young people’s future does not look as bright as before. The morality of the skilful tempter, not the morality of the women, is in question. Don Alfonzo does not reveal the fallibility of human nature, he causes it.   Listen to the opera’s profoundly moving trio, “Soave il vento”, at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hzs16SwVRhw    Alla Tkachuk founded Mobile Art School in Kenya, MASK, alla@mobileartschoolinkenya.org