Businesses came to a standstill in major towns in Kenya yesterday as some citizens trooped to the polling stations to cast their votes in the fresh presidential election boycotted by the opposition. In regions around Kisumu and parts of Nairobi and Mombasa, business was completely paralyzed with opposition followers barricading roads and engaging anti-riot police in running battles. In Nairobi, for instance, traders, especially those selling groceries, clothes, shoes, mobile phones and fast-food closed their premises expecting little activity due to election uncertainty that continues to cripple the economy. Early this month, the National Treasury revised the country’s GDP target downwards from 5.5 to five per cent, with the Kenya Private Sector Alliance indicating that the country has lost Sh700 billion or 10 per cent of GDP since the presidential election was annulled by the Supreme Court on September 1. A spot check by the Star revealed that furniture dealers along Peponi Road, who normally open even during national holidays and Sundays, had closed. Even flower vendors who target motorist heading to Westgate Mall were missing in action. The only M-pesa agent along the usually busy Waiyaki Way starting from the Mall was found at the ABC Place. Major supermarkets remained closed. There were little activities on all major roads in the city, with matatus competing for few passengers heading to and from the central business district. Most Nairobians opted to remain indoors with few rushing to vote at their respective polling centres. Speaking to the Star, Matatu Welfare Association chairman Dickson Mbugua said that the transport sector has borne the negative effect of the General Election this year, losing up to Sh70 million every day, weeks before and after the August 8 polls. ‘Today, our members have been forced to withdraw vehicles in areas like Kisumu, Kilifi, Jomvu, Kibera, Mathare, Busia and other routes in the Western part of the country for fear of violence. The matatu sector is likely to collect less than Sh50 million against the normal average of Sh150 million,’’ said Mbugua. He regretted that most matatu owners have lost their vehicles and other valuable properties to auctioneers for defaulting on loans due to low business activities resulting from election uncertainties in the past three weeks.  