A well-wisher has promised to supply NASA supporters with 20,000 loaves of bread and that number of bottles of water and sodas for their protests. Simba Arati, who is Dagoretti North MP, made the announcement at Uhuru Park in Nairobi on Tuesday as the supporters wrapped up Wednesday's activities. Arati said the supply will start on Friday and that they will receive the items every day. The coalition will hold protests daily in its push for reforms at the IEBC ahead of the election scheduled for October 26. Arata did not reveal the identity of the well-wisher but the news is good for members of the public who brave teargas and unpredictable weather conditions to declare Raila Odinga is their choice. Raila has withdrawn from the race against President Uhuru Kenyatta and demanded a fresh process. Read: Raila dares IEBC to declare Uhuru president, says Kenyans will resist Cases of looting and property destruction have been reported since the mass action was declared. A video emerged on Wednesday of people suspected to be NASA supporters stealing from Antonio's Grill in the Nairobi CBD. A crowd running from police, who had fired teargas, is seen taking sodas in crates outside the establishment opposite Cardinal Otunga Plaza. Some are seen fleeing with entire crates. Former Machakos Senator Johson Muthama dismissed reports their supporters looted saying they promised not to. Muthama added they were guarded by police during their march from Uhuru Park to Anniversary Towers, where IEBC is headquartered, through Kenyatta and Moi avenues. "Today we commend police for a job well done. We have held a peaceful demonstration as they protected us. Even goons tried to attack us but they were chased." He said members of the Nairobi Business Community should be blamed for theft. Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria, who is associated with the group, said they have nothing to do with the outlawed Mungiki sect. On October 6, NASA supporters broke into Tumaini Supermarket in Kisumu and stole items including food from the eatery during anti-IEBC protests. Police were forced to lob teargas canisters and shoot in the air to disperse them. More on this: NASA demos: Kisumu crowd rips through Tumaini Supermarket