Clinical officers have signed a return-to-work formula to end their strike that began 25 days ago. The health workers rejected new grading structures by the Salaries and Remuneration Commission on September 18, saying figures were "insulting". The structure placed them in the least band as unskilled and unprofessional workers earning between Sh23,000 and Sh28,000. They said this was contrary to the Clinical Officers Act signed by President Uhuru Kenyatta in June. The Act classified them as skilled and professional. More on protests: [VIDEO] No work without pay, striking nurses and clinical officers declare Also read: Ministry, governors want higher job groups for clinical officers The officers signed the agreement with Health CS Cleopas Mailu and Council of Governors chairman Josephat Nanok at Afya house in Nairobi on Thursday. After the signing, Nanok (Turkana) said the formula was a product of several days of negotiation. "We have agreed on the way forward and timelines have been issued. I hope the union will ask its officers to return to work as we deliberate on a CBA that can be binding for the next couple of years." Nanok said nurses should also heed the government's appeal and end their strike that began on June 5. "...and then we can resume negotiations on the Collective Bargaining Agreement. County governments have signed a recognition agreement and are dealing with the matter individually," he said. "We hope we can resolve this so we can tackle the various challenges in the health sector." On Tuesday, nurses termed the implementation of their CBA their "irreducible minimum and declared again that they will not resume work. They said they will only go back once the Collective Bargaining Agreement is signed, registered in court and implemented by counties. Read: Striking nurses blast Mailu, say CBA their irreducible minimum CLINICAL OFFICERS STILL UNHAPPY But George Gibore, secretary general of the Kenya Union of Clinical Officers, said they are going back to work not because thy are happy but because this is a step towards what they want. "It is the beginning of resolving issues. A majority of our members are not happy. As we heed to your call to go back, we are not going back because we are happy,." Gibore noted clinical officers need to be motivated to work on a daily basis. "Health workers are suffering...we are also suffering...even the NHIF does not properly provide for us," he said, adding the union needs a proper scheme. "Funding in the health sector has been dwindling. When we say facilities not well equipped, it is because of the funding," he said. But he thanked the government noting talks will continue after they return to work.