The design of a planned $3.5 billion pipeline to pump Ugandan oil through Tanzania for export will be completed this year and will avoid the ecologically sensitive Serengeti National Park. The project is crucial to kick-start Uganda's oil industry and would be a major infrastructure undertaking in Tanzania, one of the world's poorest and least developed countries.  The Serengeti is famed for its wildebeest migration and is home to other African animals such as lion, cheetah and elephant. The final costs of the pipeline could be revised after the design is completed and environmental impact assessments have started, Ernest Rubondo, executive director of the Petroleum Authority of Uganda, told Reuters on Thursday. "The front-end engineering and design is being completed soon, and it is the designs that actually give you the cost," Rubondo said on the sidelines of the Africa Oil Week conference. "The estimate is $3.5 bln but the FEED will give a more concrete figure," he said, adding that if the cost estimate was revised, it could also happen before the end of the year and was unlikely to go higher. French oil major Total has the lead in the project in partnership with China's CNOOC, Britain's Tullow Oil and the governments of Uganda and Tanzania, Rubondo said. He said this grouping would form a company next year to see the pipeline through and it would decide "what mix of debt and equity will be used to fund it." Asked about ecological concerns, he said: "There are no environmental concerns that can't be mitigated." "What most people worry about is that it is going through the Serengeti, but it is far from the Serengeti National Park and goes south of the Serengeti," he said. Read: Tanzania scraps plans to run oil pipeline through famous park Uganda estimates overall crude reserves at 6.5 billion barrels, while recoverable reserves are seen at between 1.4 billion and 1.7 billion barrels. Kampala said it picked Tanzania over its other neighbour Kenya as the route for the proposed 24-inch export pipeline because it was a "least cost and least risky" option. A decade after the initial discoveries, Uganda has not yet started production and is awaiting construction of a refinery. "We are still trying to find a lead investor for the refinery," Rubondo said.