The three men shot dead by the Recce Squad in Kenol on Saturday were described as kind, friendly neighbours who cleaned corridors and often played with a baby. But cops say these ‘Robin Hood’ gangsters who led a ‘normal’ life were part of the notorious Kayole Gaza gang, among Nairobi’s most wanted. After they were killed, neighbours said the three seemed like ordinary people and good, helpful neighbours. No one would have suspected they were hardcore criminals, neighbours said. A man, his wife and baby were caught up in the five-hour shootout between the police and gangsters. They were traumatised but unharmed. The man in his early 20s, who spoke on condition of anonymity, described the horror shootout and his three neighbours with double lives. The three, barely 25 years old, used to play with his seven-month-old daughter outside their house, he told the Star on Sunday. After one man was killed by police, the two other men ran to the family’s house to hide. They saved his family’s life by telling them to hide in the bedroom and lock the door, the man said. That’s what they did during the fierce firefight. The Recce Squad killed the two men in the family’s kitchen. “The three men lived in a bedsitter directly opposite our door. They were very friendly and clean. They used to clean the corridors,” the man said. “None was married. They were not even bringing girls in their house. They used to have a motorcycle and we assumed they were in the boda boda business.” The man said two of the three gangsters fled to his house as they tried to hide from police. He said they had not latched their door when the shooting started and the gangsters easily let themselves in when the gunfire intensified. The thugs, who had been their neighbours for months, were calm and explained to the family that they needed to hide from police, he said. “I think they ran into my house after one of them was shot dead in their bedsitter,” the man said. The gangsters were considering jumping from the balcony of their fourth-floor apartment, he said, but one was apprehensive. “They decided to stay and wait for the end, saying they were brothers and could not separate,” he added. After the neighbour asked them what was happening, they said police were after a friend of theirs. He asked them if he could get his family out of the house to safety and they said that would be all right. But they were unable to move because of the heavy gunfire and they were scared by the many cartridges scattered outside their door. The thugs then advised him to get his wife and child into their bedroom and lock the door from inside. “We locked ourselves in the bedroom and sat huddled on the floor as the gunfight continued,” he said. He said the incident was traumatising as they had never heard gunshots before. His wife and child were crying the entire time. “I thought we would die at first, but after the first few hours, the fear subsided, only to return in the last moments when the gunshots intensified,” he said. He and his family are living with a relative as he finds another house. The man said he cannot return to the house that was under siege. Murang’a police commander Naomi Ichami said the three had murdered two police officers in Kayole estate, Nairobi. The thugs had also stolen the police officers’ guns. Ichami said they were tracked down to Kenol town through their phones. He said the building they were hiding in was strategically placed and when the thugs spotted the police officers approach, they started firing. She said the officers recovered two guns – a pistol and an AK47 rifle. The police boss said the pistol had been stolen from one of the murdered police officers in Kayole. Ichami said the AK-47 had also been stolen from another officer murdered in Kibichoi in Kiambu in August. Ichami said two of the gunned down gangsters were among the most wanted criminals in Nairobi. The third seemed to be a new member.