Tanzania has been constrained by a court injunction from auctioning the 1,000 cows taken at Wanga district of Kilimanjaro province on
Wednesday. The
owners of the cows, who are the Kisonko Maasai from Loitokitok, were forced to
use the Tanzanian courts system to stop the authorities from auctioning their animals. The country's minister for livestock ordered the auction on Wednesday and it was expected to take place on Friday. Police
in Tanzania also arrested four herders, chairman of group ranch Kurdunyi ole Metoi and five others. Kilimanjaro provincial commissioner Mohamed Mushora ordered the arrest of Metoi and five others, who had gone to negotiate the release of the livestock. More on this: 1,000 cows, 10 Kenyans seized by Tanzanians On
Thursday, Kajiado county commissioner Harsama Kello dispatched a group of six
elders to negotiate the release of the herders. His efforts hit a dead end on on Saturday when the Kilimanjaro regional commissioner told him
to negotiate with Dar es Salaam as the matter was "above" her. "She
told me to contact their livestock minister because it is the top official who
issued orders that no Kenyan livestock should cross into their country. I was
amazed by the new development." Kello,
who was accompanied by Kajiado South deputy county commissioner Abdirisack
Jaldesa in Loitokitok, said he contacted Nairobi for assistance over the
issue. "This
matter is of great concern to the people of Kajiado South, and by extension the
government of Kenya," he said. "We have been doing business with Tanzanian authorities
across the border and dealing with crime without involving Dar es
Salaam. I am shocked that a petty matter involving cows is now being handled
by a Tanzanian minister." Related: Kenyan herders fined Sh45 million for grazing in Tanzania "REVENGE POSSIBLE" The commissioner said he is concerned that actions by John Magufuli's administration may lead to revenge by the Kenyan
Maasai. "As
we speak, there is a lot of tension out there. This may be followed by
violent reactions to Tanzanian interests along the border line. Tanzania may have itself to blame for any wrong move." Jaldesa
said the Kenyans have been denied bail which is their constitutional
right. "They
have been accused of trespassing with livestock to Tanzania, which is a
bailable offense. This is hostility of the first order because Tanzanian
herders have been crossing into our country with their livestock and no one has
ever complained." Jaldesa
refused to comment on allegations that Kenyan Maasais on Thursday
reacted by confiscating 4 500 cows belonging to Tanzanians. He said the Kisonko Maasai in Kenya have relatives across the border and that the government of Tanzania should stop interfering with lives of people along
the border. "If
animosity erupts following that Tanzanian action, Kenya may not be in a position to
stop its people from revenging," said Jaldesa. Calls
to the Kilimanjaro Regional Commissioner in Tanzania and the embassy in Nairobi went unanswered on Saturday.    