The Nyeri government
is training farmers to rear the ‘black soldier fly’, which will be used to
feed both humans and livestock. The programme is being undertaken in
conjunction with the International Centre for Insect Physiology and
Ecology to help farmers diversify their enterprises. “The idea
here is how we can incorporate some of the insects as human food and animals
feed. This is because it has been a tradition in this region that very few of
us eat insects,” Agriculture executive Robert Thuo said.  “But if you go to western
parts of the country and western parts of the region, such as Uganda, Congo and
Ghana, there is a lot of eating of insects, which are actually very nutritious.”  Briefing
the media at the Wambugu ATC recently, Thuo said the county started
working with ICIPE on the project in September last year. He said ICIPE
will offer technical support to farmers on their rearing as the officials have
been on the ground and have learnt several things they will share with farmers. The executive said since
residents are livestock farmers, rearing of the insects will come in handy in
boosting protein levels in feed, which has been an issue in the area. ICIPE research scientist
Tanga Mbi said the project is being sponsored by the Netherland’s government
and is meant to improve livelihoods by improving livestock production. “If you want a cheap
and an easy option to provide quality protein through insects to your chickens,
pigs and fish, you can now opt for black soldier fly larvae,” Tanga said. “They also help break
down organic waste to compost for use in agriculture. It is an agribusiness
model focusing on commercially producing high quality insect-based protein for
fish, pigs and poultry.”   ALTERNATIVE SOURCE OF
PROTEINS Fishmeal and soya
beans are the key protein components in animal feed, and they come at exorbitant
prices, are seasonal, at times have to be exported, and are in high competition
between animals and humans, hence the need for an alternative. “In the 28 insect
species we have profiled, the protein levels are between 35 to 73 per cent,
which are comparable or sometimes superior to the protein levels in fishmeal
and soya beans,” Mbi said. He said insects are a vital
source of protein that can be used to replace fishmeal and soya bean components
in animal feed. Throughout the
project, ICIPE invited farmers to visit the centre to see its mass production
facility, and most of them have taken start-up population and started engaging
in insect production. Mbi said ICIPE will
get to Nyeri and other areas and start establishing pilot facilities in each
county. At least 50 pilot facilities will be established, whereby model farmers
will start mass production of the insects. ICIPE is also working
closely with feed manufacturers with a view to getting them to pick up these
products and start replacing them in animal feed. James Kariuki, a fish
farmer from Narumoro in Kieni, said farmers have been trying to keep insects
but the projects fail due to lack of technical knowhow on their rearing. Thuo said use of fish
as a protein ingredient in animal feed has led to harvesting of immature fish,
interfering with the ecosystem.   IMPORTANCE OF BLACK SOLDIER FLY  The Black Soldier Fly larvae
make good animal feed and compost. BSF (Hermetia
illucens) is one of the most beneficial insects to humans. The
larvae are an excellent source of food for many animals, including poultry, and
a bait for fish and pigs. At
different stages of their life cycle, especially at larvae stage, BSF consume
large quantities of food wastes. Agricultural waste products are decomposed and
eventually converted into manure, which restores soil fertility besides maintaining
a healthy environment. As an
essential decomposer, the black soldier fly reduces the volume and weights of
any waste obtained, reduce potential pollutants such as organic chemicals in
manure, prevent houseflies from laying eggs in the waste, cause a significant
reduction of E. coli and Salmonella enterica in chicken manure, and are not
attracted to human habitation and foods. They inhibit flies and houseflies from
flying around.   STAGES OF GROWTH The BSF larvae
are dark, flat grubs, and the adults look like tiny wasps, but they do not
sting. The adults only live for a few days, but their larvae can live for
several days, and during this time, they can consume huge quantities of food
waste or manure. Moreover, neither the
larvae nor the flies are considered pests or vectors. BSF grubs can eat
practically anything, except high cellulose items like grasses, leaves and
paper. BSF larvae
go through seven stages before pupating. A few days before pupating, they turn
brown, and this is when they are best to feed to animals. When the larvae are
ready to pupate, they secrete their digestive system, lose their mouth, and
produce an antibiotic coating. Therefore, unlike
houseflies, they cannot carry disease between wastes and foods consumed by
humans. This also makes them safe to feed to our animals.   Additional information
from BioVision