The EU Election Observation Mission (EOM) calls on Kenya’s political leaders to demonstrate commitment to democratic electoral competition and institutions. The intensifying accusations between political rivals and against the institutional pillars of the democratic process, in particular the Judiciary and the Independent Electoral and IEBC, have led to escalating tensions and risk derailing the election. The EU EOM therefore calls on the political contenders to come together constructively and overcome the challenges for the upcoming presidential election. Political leaders have a specific responsibility to respect the law and ensure that people’s rights are honoured. Demands for far-reaching changes to the election administration need to be matched with the constitutional requirements for the rerun to be held by 31 October. Excessive demands, which cannot be met by the IEBC, place an extraordinary burden on the institution and escalate tension and antagonism in the election. The EU EOM suggests that contenders focus as a matter of urgency on practical and meaningful integrity measures that can be realistically undertaken to strengthen operations and systems. Decisive improvements in the electoral process are still achievable if Kenyans come together in a constructive manner. The EU EOM suggests that the IEBC provide regular public information on the measures it is undertaking in view of the Supreme Court ruling. The EU EOM has made 18 recommendations for the rerun, 9 of which are directed to the IEBC. Late amendments to electoral legislation risk being politically polarizing, undermining the predictability of law, reducing the quality of legislation and generating implementation problems. It is good practice for the fundamental elements of an electoral process to be legally finalised at least one year before an election. The Economic Community of West African States notes, “No substantial modification shall be made to the electoral laws in the last six months before the elections, except with the consent of a majority of political actors.” Proceeding to pass the “Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2017” and the “Election Offences (Amendment) Bill, 2017” before the rerun would be a highly problematic process, with changes being extremely controversial. The changes would likely be subject to legal challenge, including on constitutional grounds, resulting in further uncertainty in the electoral process. Changes to the electoral laws would also hinder the on-going work of the IEBC in preparing the election in an already limited time frame. The EU EOM is independent, separate from EU governments and is led by Marietje Schaake, MEP from The Netherlands.