The Court of Appeal on Wednesday suspended a ruling by the High Court in order to forestall a crisis, the judges said. High Court Judge George Odunga had earlier ruled that the appointment of returning officers and their deputies was illegal. Odunga however failed to quash their gazettement. A three-judge bench of justices Erastus Githinji, Martha Koome and Fatuma Sichale suspended the ruling until an appeal filed by IEBC is heard and determined. “In defence of the sovereignty of the people and the supremacy of the Constitution, we order that the declaration by the High Court that the appointment of returning and deputy returning officers was in violation of regulation 3 ( 2 ) aforesaid as read with article 38 and 81 of the Constitution and the implementation thereof is hereby suspended and or put in abeyance pending the hearing of the application inter partes,” the bench ruled. That order meant the functions of the returning officers and their deputies as regards yesterday’s repeat election were valid. Odunga had said that the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission violated sections of the Constitution in appointing the returning officers and their deputies. IEBC immediately filed an appeal. The commission said Odunga erred in law and urged the appellate court to overturn his decision. After listening to the submissions made by the IEBC, the judges said they were mandated by law to do justice without undue regard to technicalities of procedure. It is at that point where they explained that they took the decision to suspend the ruling in order to avert a constitutional crisis. The judges said they had powers to give orders in the presence of one party in prevailing circumstances in order to forestall a constitutional crisis.  IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati later announced that the election would proceed as planned because the High Court ruling did not affect it. Chebukati said the ruling did not invalidate the appointment of the officers or their deputies because it did not quash their gazettement. “The judgment does not affect the repeat presidential polls. It should be noted that the commision has deployed the same officials gazetted for the August 8 polls,” Chebukati said.