County Assembly speakers want to make it impossible for MCAs to impeach them. During their induction in Mombasa, they held discussions with Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka on how to increase the threshold of indictment. Forum chair Johnson Osoi said they want to amend the law and add more processes other than 75 per cent. He said a court must find a speaker culpable of violating the constitution before removal from office, adding that such a provision is lacking in the County Government Act of 2012. "In the absence of such determination, it is nonsense," he said on Friday. Osoi proposed that a Speaker must be required to appear before the Senate in case of removal as there is no such requirement. "There should be an opportunity for
speaker to defend himself ... In fact to remove a speaker you
don't need to send him to the senate like you do for governor," he
said. “You just need a motion that is
supported by 75 per cent of members and you are done.” Osoi said the first county assemblies abused
the powers to impeach. Trans Nzoia and Kisumu MCAs removed
their respective speakers, while the process was barred by courts in Mombasa, Baringo and Isiolo. Failed attempts were made against
Nairobi, Makueni, Narok, Nakuru and Nandi speakers. Read: Nairobi MCAs sign petition to impeach Speaker Magelo Osoi said governors and speakers were
threatened with prosecution even when it was unnecessary. “What we are asking is the leaders to
become responsible and uphold the law without abusing the powers to
impeach,” he said. Osoi said impeachment should be the
last resort. 'RAISE THRESHOLD' For a speaker to be sacked, a notice must be given in writing to the clerk of the county assembly. It
must be signed by at least one third of all the MCAs stating the
grounds
. A motion for removal resolution is then
presided over by any MCA. Before the debate and voting, the
speaker must be accorded an opportunity to respond to the
allegations on the floor of the county assembly.
 Lusaka said the
threshold must be really raised to avoid impeachment being triggered
by malice. "You don't have to disagreed with your
MCAs in the morning then they mobilise others in the afternoon to
move a motion of impeachment," he said. Lusaka said there must have some levels
of stability and focus. The former Bungoma governor said the
threshold should also be high for the removal of county bosses. "Is it fair for five people or ten to
sit and make a decision out of malice to fire a person who has been
elected by over 200,000 voters?" he said. In case a governor is impeached, Parliament must enact legislation providing for his removal. Currently, the constitution gives the
Senate the exclusive mandate to decide whether a governor can be
impeached. National Assembly in 2014 published the County Government
(Amendment) Bill 2014, paving the way for the public, including MPs,
to petition either House for the removal of a governor on grounds
specified under Article 181 of the Constitution. The article cites gross violation of constitution and other laws, committed crimes under international laws, abuse of office and physical or mental incapacity to perform as grounds to remove a governor.