For people looking for a distraction following a charged political season, The Affordable Art Show will be the place to go.  Taking place at the Nairobi National Museum from November 3-4, the event will showcase a range of artwork from new and experienced Kenyan artists. This year, a new category of photography has been introduced.  Last year, more than 230 paintings and sculptures were exhibited around the walls of the garden courtyard, making it a calm venue to browse and buy art at reasonable prices. All pieces are priced under Sh100,000, with many pieces below Sh50,000, but special attention is paid towards featuring quality work.    ARTISTS FEATURED Expected to participate is the artist couple Shine Tani and wife Rahab, co-founders of the Banana Hill Art Gallery.  Patrick Kinuthia will most likely feature some of his colourful portraits of African women, although last year he also entered some landscape pieces.  Adrian Nduma is known for semi-abstract works and has been commissioned for many private collections, including paintings for State House.  Kenyan-based Geraldine Robarts, familiar for her colourist impressions of East African people and places, will return to the show this year. At 73 years old, Elkana Ong’esa is probably Kenya’s foremost sculptor of Kisii soapstone. His Bird of Piece carving from 1973 still graces the entrance to the Unesco building in Paris.  Boniface Maina is a fast-emerging surrealist artist, who has an extraordinary way of depicting people and interactions.  We can also expect Alexandra Spyratos of Malindi to show her unusual portraits of wildlife and wild places.  Quite often, artists from Uganda and Tanzania also participate. Ssali Yusuf of Uganda is a frequent show exhibitor, known for storytelling through vivid abstracts of nature, traditions and African women.    ORGANISERS The event is organised by the Kenya Museum Society under the auspices of the National Museums of Kenya. Part of the proceeds of the show go towards supporting projects of NMK.  According to KMS, close to 30 per cent of artwork was sold over three days in 2016, a notable feat, considering that many galleries are happy with 15 per cent sales.  The opening party on Friday evening is usually a lively atmosphere of art viewing, to the background of light entertainment and refreshments.  On Saturday morning, there will be a Children’s Art Appreciation Tour through the exhibition, followed by a session of painting for the children to explore their creativity. In the afternoon, there will be a guided walk for young professionals interested in learning more about art and art buying.