IEBC is locked in a crisis meeting at Bomas of Kenya to deliberate on the way forward and the fate of the October 26 presidential election. This follows the withdrawal by NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga and his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka. The two cited lack of cooperation from the commission. After the announcement, IEBC said its bosses would meet legal teams. The commission led by chairman Wafula Chebukati did not let journalists into the venue. But it is said IEBC has requested ample time to critically deliberate on the political situation the country finds itself in. Read: Raila dares IEBC to declare Uhuru president, says Kenyans will resist There is more to discuss considering the High Court's order for Thirdway Alliance party leader Ekuru Aukot to be added to the ballot, with about 15 days to go. Bearing in mind the logistical challenges of printing the papers, the commission tried to appeal for the order to be halted but the High Court did not heed. More on agency: IEBC in crisis meeting as NASA calls 'bigger' demos Also read: Don't despise small people, Aukot tells Chebukati after ruling Earlier, the electoral agency said it responded to the Opposition's irreducible minimums and can guarantee the integrity of the fresh presidential election. Chebukati said they are ready to deliver a credible election in strict compliance with the constitution. "Upon assuming office, the commission has remained committed to meaningful stakeholder engagement and it is towards this end that we have hosted consultative meetings between the commission and the NASA coalition," he said in a letter. Talks between NASA, Jubilee and the IEBC flopped after MPs tabled an election draft law in Parliament. The Bill was passed earlier on Wednesday and it is expected that President Uhuru Kenyatta will sign it on Thursday or Friday. Parliament has passed the amendments where if one candidate withdraws from a repeat presidential election, the other automatically wins. The laws are to be debated in the senate this afternoon and if they sail through, they will be presented for signing. Uhuru said he will sign the Bill into law as soon as possible because it covers issues raised by the National Super Alliance. The Bill seeks to give prominence to manual results over electronic results and clip the powers of the IEBC chair. Read: Parliament passes controversial election law amendment