These sects include the infamous Mungiki,
Chinkororo, Mombasa Republican Council, Makande Army, Sungu Sungu, Sakina
Youth, Gaza, Superpower, Baghdad Boys, Forty Brothers, Kuzacha, Taliban and
Siafu, among many more others. From kidnappings, piracy, dealings in
illicit drugs, carjacking, money laundering, trade in illegal arms, extortion
to even forced oathing, these groups give the rest of the citizens an ice-cold
feeling of profound fear and that cannot be taken lightly in any sense. Scarier still is the fact that these groups
are more than just a few. Spread across the country, they’re obviously a
problem, and the inactive stance taken by law enforcement agencies should be an
issue of great concern. Some like the Mungiki and to some extent
the MRC are most active during times of escalated political temperature. A considerable number of politicians have
over time been linked, in one way or another, with some of these gangs, and one
may even be blameless in believing some of those allegations since they have at
times proven a strong political tool when it comes to, say, controlling the
masses. Moreover, a substantial number of those
gangs are ethnically driven. It would again be reasonable to believe that some
politicians who bank on their influence over their individual communities
recruit these criminal gangs to their ‘campaign drives,’ so to speak. For instance, an issue arose in Nakuru county
a while back over ties between a governor and the Mungiki sect, owing to his
presence in the funeral of a slain resident Joseph Ngugi Chege.  The deceased was allegedly a leader of the
gang, which was believed to command an army of about 100,000 within the
outlawed group. These allegations were quite damning,
especially because they had been leveled by the general business community in
the area, who claimed the Mungiki had been, and continued to, extort money from
them. The governor dismissed these claims,
praising Chege and stating categorically that theirs was a pristine business
partnership. That might have been the case, but one
should still wonder, why are these gangs not on top of the county and or
national governments’ agenda? National security is paramount. Kenyans have to
feel safe if the government is to be accredited. Instead, all we see are periodical
emergences of squad after squad, deaths that cannot be accounted for, alleged
collusions with people in power and even threats in select areas in the form of
leaflets and the likes. Of late, the biggest step we’ve seen the
government take with regard to these illegal associations is merely outlawing
them. What then after that? It’s enough that people pay taxes. Why
would they then have to part with their hard-earned cash just so that some
pseudo-government in a criminal outfit, while the law of the land just stands
there, doing nothing? We can speculate all day long as to the
origins of these crews, but I can be sure about one thing: Survival has to be a
fundamental factor in their formations, regardless of whether or not they were
contemporary and/or concurrent. These gangs, save for maybe a few that are
purely political like the MRC, seem to fund their own activities, and procure
these monies mainly from their criminal activities, especially extortion,
kidnappings and robberies.  Matatu operators have had the worst
experiences with these merciless youths. You could say that it’s their vocation
to terrorize the public. Therefore, it might be safe to assume that
the main cause of this issue, or at least one of the chief causes, is the low
standards of living in the areas most affected by these syndicates. It is blatantly obvious that they form
these cliques as a result of lack of employment, or at least one that rewards
as well as the one they have chosen. All in all, it is the lowly Kenyan that
ultimately gets hurt the most, because most of these gangs don’t really value
their own tribesmen, unless maybe they take some kind of oath, which in most
cases is irrevocable. It doesn’t help either the fact that our
police are underpaid, notwithstanding the fact that it’s an ever essential tool
in the government’s various agenda. This can in turn lure them into conniving
with the various gangs, especially the apolitical ones, to commit atrocities on
the people they are sworn to protect. They may help them with firearms to
commit crimes, or even frustrate investigations that they would have otherwise
concluded had they been of good faith. All in all, this has been a silent issue
for quite some time, mostly because these local terrorists centres, paralyzes
and incapacitates the people from antagonising them even one bit. Our only hope
is our law enforcement, and if indeed that’s the case, then things are
obviously not good. Not by the longest shot.            