Kenya is a well-known ICT hub in Africa but computer literacy is largely limited to basic ‘copy and paste’ skills, sending emails and using social media, a Unesco report says. It shows most ‘computer literate’ people in developing countries like Kenya cannot hack basic tasks like simple arithmetic on spreadsheets or writing a basic computer programme. Such people may not actively participate in today’s digitised global economy, where proper computer literacy is non-negotiable, the report says. It was released this week. The 2016 Global Education Monitoring Report says that in contrast, at least 44 per cent of adults in the European Union can use spreadsheets proficiently. “Now, more than ever, education has a responsibility to foster the right type of skills, attitudes and behavior that will lead to sustainable and inclusive growth,” outgoing Unesco boss Irina Bokova said.  The report defines basic ICT competence as the ability to copy or move a file or folder, use of basic arithmetic formulas on excel spreadsheets and writing a computer programme using a specialised programming language.  Other basic skills include the ability to find, download, instal and configure software; connect and instal new devices like a printer and also create electronic presentations embedded with images and videos.  Unesco said the measure of digital literacy is advancing rapidly because of rapid technological changes over a short period. “For example, the introduction of tablets and smartphones has resulted in new ICT applications and ways of working digitally,” the report said. A 2010 study by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics and the then Communications Commission of Kenya estimated the access and usage of computers and internet in Kenya at 8.4 per cent and 6.3 per cent, respectively.  “These low levels of penetration may be associated with a number of factors, among them high cost of computers, poverty levels and lack of electricity connections in households,” the report said.  However, this is expected to improve with increased electricity connections and falling prices of internet and digital devices.  The Unesco report calls for education systems that impart higher skills aligned with the needs of growing economies, where job skill sets are fast changing and many are being automated.  It partly attributes the problem in developing countries to overcrowded classrooms and an inadequate supply of teachers.     