The law banning manufacture, distribution, sale and use of light plastic carrier bags is fully in force, Nema said on Friday. The grace period is over. Nema said it had done enough education and will now move to compliance and enforcement. Penalties range from a fine of Sh2 to Sh4 million or a jail term of one to two years. Nema director general Geoffrey Wahungu said the fine and jail term will depend on the amount of the illegal plastics found and the owner’s economic status. “We are using the principle of proportionality. You can see very clearly from the reports coming out that for those who have been arrested, our courts are also using the same principle,” he said. The use of plastic bags was banned through a Gazette Notice on February 27. Manufacturers were given six months — until August 28 — to clear their stock. Nonrecyclable plastic bags with handles, with or without gussets, or flat bags without handles and with or without gussets are not allowed. Wahungu said the first month was for raising awareness, monitoring and surveillance. He said manufacturers, distributors, retailers and users, especially small-scale traders, cannot be treated the same. Wahungu said unlike before when Nema officers identified themselves, they will now go undercover. “If you are using plastic bags, you can expect that any person shopping next to you or buying from you could be a Nema inspector, or even a gazetted inspector from a lead agency, as we have gazetted many inspectors who may not be Nema staff, “he warned. Wahungu said they have continued to monitor and this week, they made some arresting of those with stocks, distributors and manufacturers. Several arrests have been made around the country but culprit released with a warning. Wahungu said some small-scale traders are still defying the ban, but added ignorance is no defence. “We have been patient, given enough room for innovation and opportunities. We are going to enforce the law fully and we want the full cooperation of Kenyans,” he said. Wahungu said some plastics going to Mombasa andKisumu are from Nairobi and are transported by night buses. He warned that there will be impromptu inspections of public transport vehicles.  