Despite many bitter words, President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday said he doesn't
hate NASA leader Raila Odinga but will deal resolutely with him or anyone disrupting tomorrow's election rerun. Today the Supreme
Court will decide if, indeed, there will be an election tomorrow. Raila
has called for a boycott of the 'non-election'.  Meantime,
Jubilee is going all out for a monster turnout to affirm Uhuru's
legitimacy in the face of Raila's withdrawal, fury by millions of Raila supporters and claims the election will not be fair.  PSVs are slashing fares. Even disabled and ailing voters will be hunted down and taken to polling stations. In an exclusive interview with the
Star, Kenyatta said there was
nothing personal between him and the opposition boss. “Raila is my elder brother and
there is nothing wrong with me disagreeing with him on matters politics from
time to time," he said on Tuesday night. The President had called Raila a witch and a madman, Raila has called the President a drunkard. The tough-talking President
insisted said though he respects Raila’s democratic decision not to
participate in the election, he will not allow him or anyone to disrespect the rights of anyone who wants to vote. “The rights of all Kenyans must be
respected. They can insult me for all they want but I dare them to try and
disrupt election. “Let people of Kenya go to the
ballot and decide their leader. Once that leader is picked, then that leader
will have to talk to everyone from Kenyans to regional leaders to international
leaders,” the President said. On September 1, the Supreme Court
nullified Uhuru's election, saying the polls were fraught with
illegalities and irregularities. It ordered a fresh poll within 60 days,
by October 31. The IEBC set October 17, then pushed it to tomorrow. But
Raila and many critics say there's still not enough time to fix all the
problems in the IEBC, including its staffing, transmission and tallying
systems. Raila says everything should be called off and a totally new
election, not a rerun, scheduled in some 90 days. The petitioners
are asking the court to clarify its 2013 interpretation of the
Constitution — that if a candidate drops out, the whole process should
begin afresh. That is the case Raila’s lawyers cite in justifying his decision to boycott the poll. According
to the Constitution the vote must be held before November 1, but
lawyers say a rerun should be allowed if the chairman of the electoral commission says, “it is difficult to guarantee a free, fair and credible election.” It
is not clear how the court or anyone will handle a potential
constitutional crisis if the election is not held within 60 days. Acting
Interior CS Fred Matiang'i declared today a public holiday to prepare
for the election, but the Supreme Court says it will hear the petition
anyhow. Raila has also promised "to make a major announcement" today on the way forward. While
Raila has withdrawn and called for street protests to demand IEBC
reforms, Uhuru has campaigned like a man possessed and insisted
political issues can only be resolved by an election. Calls for dialogue have been dashed. It's not clear whether post-election talks on healing will be possible. Some
civil society organisations have
called on the IEBC to call off elections to allow the country to cool
down and allow for proper planning of a new and credible election. Citizens, including former MP Harun
Mwau have gone to court asking the IEBC to call off elections. “I have no problem talking to
Kenyans, especially my political competitors. But Kenyans must remember our
forefathers fought for independence so they can elect their leaders. I am
not about to deviate from that,” the President said.  “We do not not need to fight and or argue. No
one has the right to interrogate you about their choice," he said. Because
the economy is suffering, Kenyans must put an end to electioneering
that has scared away investors and depressed business. “We must create certainty ...
I cant participate in sideshows," the President said. Meanwhile, Jubilee is boosting voter turnout to court global endorsement of his legitimacy. High turnout aims to seal any loopholes Raila might exploit to pull a surprise in case the IEBC calls off
elections in opposition zones where  Raila has called for a boycott. Just
as Raila 'played' Jubilee that he would not challenge the August 8
presidential results, only to change his mind at the last minute,
Jubilee,
according to well-placed sources, is not ready to fall into Raila's
trap for a second time. Raila
called for demonstrations tomorrow, Election Day, but later also called
for supporters to stay home and off the streets. However, NASA CEO
Norman Magaya recently has affirmed massive street protests will be held
tomorrow.         If demos materialise and
significantly interfere with voting in NASA zones, the IEBC might call
off the process in those hotspots and announce new dates. “It's
all systems go on our side and we are in the poll. We know we have the numbers and are focused on 100
percent voter turnout so we can now build the nation together,”
Jubilee
vice chairman David Murathe told the Star
yesterday. Senate
Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen exposed Jubilee's
fears and the reason behind the push for big numbers. “Jubilee
voters will turn out in good numbers because they are sure Uhuru will
win, and get about four million votes around 50 percent voter turnout,”  Murkomen said in a Facebook post. “Then
Raila comes out and campaigns thoroughly and ensures 100 percent
turnout in NASA strongholds and celebrates if he beats Uhuru's
numbers." Jubilee
is encouraging PSVs to give free or subsidised transport
to supporters stuck in Nairobi to ensure every vote is cast. PSVs in JP zones have drastically slashed fares; some offer free transport. Popular
matatus, 2NK, plying the Nyeri, Nyahururu and Nakuru routes – areas
perceived to be pro-JP — have cut charges from Nairobi CBD to have everyone vote.  Murang'a
Governor Mwangi wa Iria, Senator Irungu Kang'ata and county woman
representative Sabina Chege have organised free transport to Murang'a for
their
constituents living in Nairobi. In
Nakuru county, Mololine Matatu Services
yesterday announced it will work with hospitals to
ferry patients to polling stations at no cost. NASA
claims Jubilee has printed ballot papers at a company along Mombasa road to stuff ballot boxes, a claim dismissed by JP.