NATIONAL Resistance Movement leader Raila Odinga seems to have landed a bull from his turncoat ODM vice
chairman Paul Otuoma, without
breaking a sweat! An indignant Otuoma swore by his gods to give Raila a bull if
President Uhuru Kenyatta would not
garner over 50 per cent votes in Busia county in the October 26 repeat
presidential polls. Otuoma, who lost the Busia governorship seat as an
independent, turned against his erstwhile ODM boss, blaming him for the
unanticipated loss after jumping ship to join Jubilee Party in backing Uhuru's
reelection. Results from Busia county, however, are the opposite of Otuoma’s
50-plus target for his new master and Raila, without any hesitation, should
signal his entrusted point-men or foot soldiers to go collect the bull and
feast. *** WHAT is next for Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka? Will he join the Resistance movement? These are
some of the questions five MPs from Ukambani region were overheard posing to
each other at a high-end city hotel situated along Kenyatta Avenue. A little bird
who overheard the conversation has whispered to Corridors that the team of
legislators, who are close allies of the former Vice President, were so worried
that his political career and the political relevance of the Kamba community
may be affected by the move by the opposition to turn NASA into a resistance
movement. **** COULD a coastal politician have recalled a top-of-the-range
SUV he had given to a reknowned socialite? Word has it that the popular
politician fell out with the socialite, who has been posting her nude photos on
social media platforms, and he opted to recall the colourful German machine. Not
taking the matter lightly, the beauty has threatened to expose the man for all
the wrong things he has done, including sharing photos of the two when they
were eating the forbidden fruit. **** INTERNATIONAL election observers should blame
themselves for coming up with reports endorsing flawed polls in Africa in
election monitoring missions. Word has it that the well-funded international
observers focus on election monitoring in posh suburbs of African countries
with less voters and hardly visit densely populated slum areas. Our mole tells Corridors
most presiding officers in slum area polling stations within Nairobi never
received a foreign election observer both at the August 8 General Election and the
October 26 presidential repeat polls. It is said none of the observers in the
just concluded poll even went to peaceful slum area polling stations bordering
posh estates, despite their top-of-the-range SUVs being spotted frequenting
stations in suburb areas. This could maybe explain why the observers always side
with the government.      