Swamibapa’s dream of winning their Nairobi Provincial Cricket Association (NPCA) Super League title in the last seven years once again failed as the heavens opened up to wash away their hopes of a win over Gymkhana at Jafferys on Sunday. The home side had given themselves a more than adequate chance for victory having reduced Nairobi Gymkhana to 150 for 5 after posting an impressive 286 all out on the board but the rain played spoiler as the match was called off by the officials. With the abandonment, Swamibapa were awarded 12 points while the visitors went home with six points. With the result, Swamibapa’s chances of reclaiming the title that has eluded them for seven years seems to have ended at least for now as they are 35 points behind leaders Kanbis and 31 points behind second-placed Stray Lions. Earlier, Irfan Karim gave spine to the Swamibapa innings, with an 81-ball-80 which included ten fours and one six, with opener Krishna Babu putting on 48 from 70 balls and three other batsmen chipping in with 20’s. Peterson Kamau was the pick of Nairobi Gymkhana bowlers with 3 for 53 from his 10 overs. Rushabh Patel and Dominic Wesonga had scored 56 and 24 runs to guide his team to 150 for 5 before it started raining. Elsewhere, Nelson Odhiambo smashed a majestic 144 while Dhiren Gondaria conjured up 117 as Kanbis continued their heavy battering of their opponents with a 214 runs win over Ruaraka. Odhiambo and Gondaria rattled up a sensational 168-run partnership for the their wicket to set up the platform for 377 for 6 at Eastleigh High School.  The visitors were in trouble after losing three wickets for 35 runs before Sagar Shah patched up the inning with 77 from 36 before being bowled out for 163.  The two centurions linked up together after Shah and Sanay Shrisabatan had reduced the home team to 48 for 2 with the dismissal of Narenra Patel ( 23 ) and Rajesh Bhudia ( 0 ). Odhiambo’s knock included six sixes and nine fours while Gondaria hit 11 boundaries and five sixes.  Rakep Patel, who dropped to number six, added 63 from 55 balls.   In reply, Ruaraka’s batting failed completely against a combined spin and pace attack from the league leaders with only Shah standing out with a knock that included six fours and two sixes. 