Police have disputed a report that says officers killed at least 33 people during post-election protests in various parts of the country. The report by Amnesty International said the deaths were caused by bullets fired by police who moved in to contain unrest that sporadically erupted mainly in NASA strongholds. Most of the deaths were reported in slum areas including Kawangware, Kibera, Mathare North and parts of Nyanza.  The 37-page report titled 'Kill Those Criminals: Security Forces' Violation in Kenya' was released on Monday. "We wish to refute the claims as totally misleading and based on falsehoods. We are studying the report and will issue a comprehensive report later," police spokesperson George Kinoti said in a statement. In a similar report released last week, the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights blamed police for 37 deaths that occurred as police moved in to quell post-poll violence. The report christened 'Mirage at Dusk' said majority of the victims killed were from one ethnic community.  Seven of those killed were minors, including a six-month old baby who was hit on the head by a police officer in Kisumu. More on this: Nyong'o blasts security bosses at baby Samantha Pendo's requiem mass On August 12, a day after the chaos erupted following the announcement of President Uhuru Kenyatta's win, the Kenya Red Cross Society said it picked up 93 people who were injured during the violence. MSF Kenya, which has its own ambulances and involves figures not counted by the Red Cross, reported 54 people were treated at its clinics, raising the toll to at least 150 wounded. The Opposition which disputed Uhuru's win has called for sustained street protests to push for changes at the IEBC. NASA leader Raila Odinga, who has since pulled out of the repeat elections slated for October 26, says the electoral body is colluding with the the Jubilee administration to rig the fresh poll. During last weeks protests on Friday, three protesters were killed in Bondo, Siaya County and scores others were injured in Kisumu and Migori counties. Several businesses were vandalized and looted by some protesters especially in Nairobi and Kisumu during the protests.  A heavy contingent of riot police has been deployed in opposition strongholds ahead of the kick-off of week-long protests on Monday seemingly to prevent similar incidents. Acting Interior CS Fred Matiang'i last week banned anti-IEBC protests in CBDs in Nairobi, Kisumu and Mombasa but protesters are expected to force their way through.  Read: Kisumu residents recount police cruelty in demos