NASA politicians have hinted at forcing a caretaker government after November 1 and said they will ensure no election on October 26. November 1 will be 90 days after the nullification of President Uhuru Kenyatta's re-election on August 8 and five days after the date set by IEBC for fresh poll. It is not clear how this will be achieved but Mombasa politicians have said directions will be made public on Sunday when NASA principals attend a mega rally in Mombasa. The Mama Ngina rally will be first for NASA after the court overturned Uhuru's win. The President has visited. Read: NASA chiefs to hold mega Mombasa rally, Matiang'i persona non grata - Nassir Pundits have said NASA will gamble with conflicting constitutional articles and Supreme Court rulings to attain this. NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga, backed by a legion of lawyers and brilliant minds, has signaled he will be heading to court to seek interpretations. Read: Raila may seek Supreme Court direction on October 26 poll Mvita MP Abdulawamad Nassir said police have schemed to use violence to scuttle their "hidden plans". "We will ensure there is proper liberation," he said on Saturday when he and other leaders inspected Mama Ngina grounds ahead of the rally. Mombasa Deputy Governor William Kingi said: "Directions and what pertains to the election will be discussed in detail." Salim Bajaber, a Wiper member, said Chief Justice David Maraga should confirm there will be no election on October 26 after Raila's withdrawal. Bajaber said IEBC and Jubilee's lawyers have been misadvising their clients on matters concerning the election. Lawyers have been giving contradictory interpretations of the situation. Related: What does it mean? Obiter dictum and the Kenyan election Former Kisauni MP Rashid Bedzimba said President Uhuru Kenyatta must approach Raila for dialogue. "The country is seriously divided. Kenyans abroad have not been spared either," he said. But Uhuru said in Murang'a that Kofi Annan and other arbiters are not welcome for peace talks in Kenya as Raila iis not interested in the poll. Raila withdrew saying IEBC is not ready to hold free, fair, transparent, verifiable and credible election. He and other NASA chiefs have insisted on mass action but acting Interior CS Fred Matiang'i has insisted elections must be held and that police will man the streets and poling stations. Uhuru said Raila is "acting as the chairman of IEBC" and losing focus on vote-hunting. "We said this over one year ago an we are now being vindicated. He tried 'showing us' but it became hard and he is now kneeling before Europeans for help while he should be seeking votes," he said at Kenol in Murang'a. "Foreigners will not help him because this is our country and we put our foot down...that Kofi Annan or any arbitrator is not welcome to Kenya to broker peace with someone not interested in an election. Kenyan voters will vote." More on this: Raila kneeling before Europeans, Kofi Annan not welcome, says Uhuru