NASA running mate Kalonzo Musyoka now claims Jubilee has a sinister motive to derail the October 26 repeat election. Kalonzo said the ruling party is banking on the Constitutional clause that says elections must be stopped if any of the presidential candidates or running mates dies. The Wiper Leader said the unilateral withdrawal of his and NASA leader Raila Odinga's security detail in the midst of the election campaigns proves that the ruling regime is on a mischievous mission. The government withdrew the duo's security detail on September 25. "Today, the other two officers attached to me have been notified to report back to their stations for re-deployment," Kalonzo said. Read: Raila, Kalonzo security detail withdrawn ahead of anti-IEBC protests Read: Raila pushed state to the wall, no negotiations on withdrawn security - Matiang'i Kalonzo said the purported petition against himself and Raila is a strategy by the Jubilee regime to intimate the opposition leaders. "When you withdraw the security of the presidential candidates, it is like allowing thugs to go and 'fix' them,” Kalonzo said. [VIDEO] Security a non-issue, Kenyans my priority, Raila tells Uhuru On elections, Kalonzo said the reforms being agitated by Jubilee are cosmetic and are meant to hoodwink Kenyans into believing there are meaningful changes being done in readiness for the election. “Whatever Chebukati announced are just but cosmetics, they have already set systems for rigging the elections, none of our demands have been addressed,” Kalonzo said. NASA has announced that it will now be holding anti-IEBC demos every Monday, Wednesday and Friday to push for the removal of IEBC CEO Ezra Chiloba and ten other officials. They blame the officers of complicity to rig the August 8 polls. NASA has threatened to boycott the repeat polls unless its "irreducible minimums" are not met.  Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana said the Kamba community is fully behind the former Vice President and will deliver 100 per cent of the vote to NASA. His sentiments were echoed by Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu and senator Enoch Wambua who accompanied the Wiper Leader during the burial ceremony of five people who perished in a road accident in Kyamalutu primary school grounds, Tseikuru.