Kiambu Institute of Science and Technology students yesterday barricaded the Kiambu road over alleged grabbing of the institution’s land by the board of trustees. Police and GSU officers fired in the air to disperse them.  The students were demonstrating for the second time since July. The institution’s board of management and board of trustees have been feuding over 200 acres worth Sh32 billion. The management says the land belongs to the institute. But the trustees lay claim to it. The land has teachers’ quarters and a 76-acre coffee plantation. The BOT is said to have rented the teachers’ quarters to outsiders. It also has allegedly failed to remit revenue generated from the coffee plantation to the institution.  The institute is left with students’ fees as the only revenue stream to help it operate. Because of this, it has hiked tuition fees, the students say.  The students have complained that the high fees are untenable “as our parents struggle to pay”. The available classrooms cannot accommodate all students. The institute has built iron sheet shanties to bridge the gap. “The infighting between the BOT and BOM is affecting us. We pay high school fees. That’s why we are protesting,” students’ leader Simon Wanderi said. The students were disappointed to learn the institute has yet to be registered in accordance with the Technical and Vocational Education and Training Act 2013. They said the problems undermine their education and they want a swift solution so they can continue learning. President Jomo Kenyatta founded the institute in 1971. The trustees were given the management mandate. BOT members include former commissioner of lands James Njenga, former chairman of the Kenya Association of Manufacturers Allan Ngugi, Nairobi lawyer George Waruhiu, quantity surveyor Kimani Mathu and former Nairobi town clerk Joseph Thairu. They say the land has never been owned by the institute and has always been in their names as trustees. The BOT members want the BOM to take 33 acres for the institute. This has caused a stalemate.  The BOM members were in a closed-door meeting to chart the way forward. Governor Ferdinand Waititu in June promised he would not allow a few people to grab public land. He said he would work with other county leaders to protect public property. He’s yet to act. The institute and its students want the ownership of the parcel reverted to them. They have appealed to President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene and fix the problem. 