NASA will scale up its anti-IEBC street demonstrations to every day from next week to push for minimum reforms at the commission despite its candidate bolting out of the race on Tuesday. Initially, NASA was only protesting every Tuesday, then it was increased to two days a week – Mondays and Fridays. Yesterday, Siaya Senator James Orengo, who is also NASA’s top legal brain, told supporters countrywide to go to the streets every day from next week to push for the removal from office of poll officials believed to have bungled the August 8 election. Tomorrow’s demonstrations will still go on as planned. “We are announcing our countrywide protests are on Friday (tomorrow) and from Monday next week, it will be every day,” Orengo said. He said it is a matter of time before IEBC chief executive officer Ezra Chiloba is bundled out of office. Orengo cited former commission chiefs - Samuel Kivuitu and Isaac Hassan - who bowed to public pressure. “We removed Kivuitu and Issack Hassan. We will also remove Chiloba. Who is Chiloba?” posed the Siaya Senator. Speaking at Uhuru Park, where NASA supporters started gathering from early morning yesterday, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho, former Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama and Homa Bay woman representative Gladys Wanga said nothing will stop them from having a clean electoral agency. From Uhuru Park, thousands of opposition supporters took to the streets causing a major traffic snarlup on the busy Uhuru Highway and Haile Salassie Avenue and on Moi Avenue on their way to the Anniversary Towers, the IEBC headquarters. The legion of opposition supporters stormed the CBD, chanting anti-Chiloba and anti-Uhuru songs, with some carrying twigs, while one supporter carried a dog as they marched towards the IEBC headquarters. Police were forced to disperse the crowd, throwing teargas canisters at the protesters, causing business to stop at the CBD as few shops that were still open quickly closed doors amidst looting incidences by the fleeing demonstrators. However, Muthama absolved the opposition supporters of looting claims, adding they were peaceful and the looters were part of the Nairobi Business Community group.          