 After flopping in the recent Fifa International break, Harambee Stars have the happenstance to redeem their fading image when they face Zambia in a friendly match on November 14. Stars were initially set to accost Rwanda on the same date but the withdrawal of Egypt from next year’s Chan Championships saw Rwanda and Ethiopia lined up for a play-off to fill the void left by the Pharaohs. The national team succumbed to Iraq and Thailand earlier this month, prompting heated calls for the immediate resignation or firing of Harambee Stars head coach Stanley Okumbi.  The loss consequently orchestrated the drop in the Fifa rankings, where the home boys sunk 14 places in the global log, fuelling more calls for the replacement of Okumbi. For Okumbi, an occasion to salvage his image and that of the national team, will be attained by nothing short of a win against Chipolopolo who have a good history against Kenya.  The last time the two met, Zambia rallied from a goal down to pick a point in Ndola in the final minutes of the game where Ayub Timbe had given the visitors an early lead in September 2016 for the 2017 Afcon qualifiers.  In the first leg match at Nyayo Stadium, Stars surrendered their 1-0 lead to post a 2-1 loss score line.  It will be Okumbi’s 18th match in charge of Stars, where in his 17 past encounters, the former Mathare United and Kariobangi Sharks tactician recorded five wins, a similar number of losses and seven draws. According to a communiqué sent from Football Kenya Federation, Stars will face Zambia on November 14 with the venue set to be determined and communicated later. “ As you are aware the national football team, Harambee Stars was scheduled to play Rwanda on November 11, in an international friendly. However, following Egypt’s withdrawal from the upcoming CHAN tournament, Caf has instructed that Rwanda play Ethiopia in a play-off with the winner taking up Egypt’s slot. In light of the aforementioned, Harambee Stars will not be able to play Rwanda and will now play Zambia instead, in Kenya, on November 14 at a venue to be confirmed.”