Governors have rejected commercial loans proposed by the national government and warned that any further delay to release devolved funds will kill devolution. The 47 county bosses want the government to release  cash owed for the past four months. “The county governments continue to incur costs when they borrow from the commercial banks to pay salaries,” Council of Governors chairman Josphat Nanok said in a letter to National Treasury CS Henry Rotich and copied to Chief of Staff Joseph Kinyua. The last time the counties received money from the Treasury was July, when the 2016-17 financial year ended.  “The continued delay and breach of the law has led to untold suffering among citizens, interrupted delivery of services and stalled development projects,” Nanok said. “The purpose of this letter is, therefore, to inform you that legally, the National Treasury is under obligation to release all funds accrued for the past four months to the county governments.” The Senate has supported the governors’ demands in a letter dated October 10, in which it pushed the Treasury to disburse funds to the counties to enable them to provide services. “We advised the National Treasury to disburse the funds as per the schedule approved by the Senate and in line with the County Allocation of Revenue Act, 2017,” Senate clerk J.M Nyegenye told the governors in a letter copied to Rotich. The letter was copied to Kinyua and Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka. The standoff between the governors and the national executive has disrupted activities — most counties remain cash-crunched. “The state has failed to remit funds for the last four months and wants the governors to consider commercial loans,” a governor from Mount Kenya said.  “State House and the National Treasury must know that commercial loans are expensive to sustain, as they attract heavy interests.”  The Constitution demands that the national government allocate operational funds to the counties. The worst-hit services include health, education, disaster management and public works. President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto have focussed on their reelection campaigns. “The county governments continue to incur costs when they continue to borrow from commercial loans,” Nanok added. The law provides that county resources are transferred monthly and not later than the 15th day of every month. However, the government has been reluctant to remit funds to the counties.  This has prompted the counties to consider alternative options to fund their activities. Some have increased taxes.  Uhuru and Ruto chair the Summit and the Inter-Governmental Budget and Economic Council, which are expected to harmonise the activities of the national and county governments. The Summit and IBEC officials have not met for months. Nanok has also urged the government to come up with ways of tackling looming problems “to avert the situation where they escalate to the level we are witnessing”.