Opposition leader Raila Odinga will on October 25 issue a statement giving his supporters the way forward concerning the repeat presidential poll. Raila has reiterated that there will be no election on Thursday adding that Kenyans of goodwill must desist from participating in the elections. "On Wednesday I will talk to Kenya and I will tell you what you should do ahead of the polls," Raila said when he addressed mourners at a funeral service in Bondo on Friday. He urged his supporters not to attack traders and supporters of president Uhuru Kenyatta saying they are innocent and suffering too. "I want to tell my people not to revenge against any Kikuyu man here in Bondo or anywhere else, that Kikuyu or Kalenjin is also suffering as you are suffering," he said. Raila said as the Opposition they want to aim for a united Kenya that has no boundaries of tribalism or ethnicity. "Everywhere I go they call me Baba. The other day I was in Kiambu and they called me baba as Uhuru watched. The Kikuyu community are our people. Let us not take the sins of one person and put it in others heads," he said. "God will push Uhuru alone as he does not speak and serve the interest of any Kenyans." 'WARNING AGAINST UHURU' Raila said Uhuru is not in competition with unarmed and innocent Kenyans he is shooting at. "I wish he could aim at me instead of shooting innocent Kenyans who are not in competition with him," Raila said. Siaya Senator James Orengo warned Uhuru against threatening Raila over court battles saying Uhuru will be arrested before NASA leader. Jubilee Party on Thursday filed a contempt case against Raila Odinga at the Supreme Court. Secretary general Raphael Tuju said Raila and his supporters have vowed to cripple the election. He noted this is despite the court's order for the IEBC to conduct a fresh election within 60 days. The court made the ruling on September 1, following a petition by Raila. The ruling also nullified President Uhuru Kenyatta's election. IEBC had declared him the winner of the August 8 by more than 1.4 million votes against the NASA leader. More on this: Jubilee sues Raila for defying Supreme Court on repeat election "Raila has won so many battles and Uhuru as an individual cannot match the kind of battles Raila fought with Moi and Jomo Kenyatta," Orengo said. Orengo revealed that Jubilee's plans spearheaded by Uhuru to deploy 300 military officers and a contingent of GSU officers to kill residents will not materialize. "Uhuru wants to replicate what his father did in Kisumu where he killed more than 20 residents in front of Jaramogi," Orengo said. This comes hours after Uhuru said any person threatening to disrupt the presidential repeat polls next week will be dealt with according to the law. Uhuru said enough police officers have been deployed in every corner of the country to protect those willing to vote. Opposition leaders had announced that it will boycott the polls unless several demands, including the sacking of IEBC CEO Ezra Chiloba, are met. Raila has been leading the Opposition supporters in demonstrations against the IEBC saying they will be no elections on the October 26th. Four people have been killed and seven arrested since the anti-IEBC protests begun but the figure is far less than the one released by Amnesty International, that placed the number of deaths to at least 33. More on this: Police dispute Amnesty report detailing 33 post-election killings