Jubilee Party leaders in Kilifi have called on Kenyans
to embrace peace and allow IEBC to finish counting votes in the presidential rerun. Dan Kazungu and Philip Charo asked Coast residents in particular not to
engage in any form of violence as witnessed in several parts of the country. "Violence is not the answer for a country building a world class economy. The President laid the foundation. Investors and tourists will leave town not only at the Coast should there be violence," sad Kazungu who is Mining Cabinet Secretary. The minister thanked those who voted and told them to wait for the commission to announce results so Kenya moves forward. He and Charo (party agent in Malindi constituency) noted violence will affect the fragile economy in the Coast region which relies on tourism. The leaders also thanked those who did not vote for not resorting to chaos during and after the elections. Kazungu said the exercise
went on safely despite threats of action on voters. Speaking in Malindi town, the CS noted leaflets were circulated in Malindi and other parts of the Coast, asking people not to vote as they would be eliminated. The Mombasa Republican Council denied distributing leaflets in parts of Mombasa and said the government knows their agenda. More on this: [VIDEO] MRC not behind leaflets threatening attacks on voters - spokesperson Kazungu also hailed teams that campaigned for
President Uhuru Kenyatta for ensuring people voted for him
despite threats he claimed were issued by people in the Opposition. "Kenya is home to all of us. The best days are ahead of us. Kenyans, give IEBC a chance...if there are any challenges they can be resolved." Charo thanked the people for turning out to vote. "Some voters were threatened. People were afraid to vote in the morning but they did later." The politician said the state of the economy will be determined by the people's ability to coexist peacefully. He asked the public to avoid violence and said: "We are all Kenyans and need each other. We have to be careful
as we wait for the government to be formed." Charo added Opposition leaders did
not succeed in their campaigns against the election despite
distributing maize and "even asking wizards to use their powers and direct bees
to ensure people do not vote". The election was boycotted in NASA leader Raila Odinga's strongholds of Kisumu, Migori, Siaya and Homa Bay. Raila withdrew from the election citing lack of reforms at IEBC. Read: IEBC postpones elections in Nyanza, to announce new dates Also read: Raila promises supporters way forward on Monday