President Uhuru Kenyatta will on Saturday start a meet-the-people tour that will take him to at least 17 counties ahead of fresh elections on October 26, interrupting his campaign only with a dash to the capital for Mashujaa Day celebrations on October 20. Uhuru will take his agenda of unifying the country and economic transformation directly to the people, meeting them in their homes, villages, markets, towns and counties. He will speak to the need for peace before, during, and after elections. The October 26 fresh elections were ordered by the Supreme Court after it nullified his re-election in the August 8 poll. Ahead of the nine-day campaign blitz, the President said: “This is about taking my policies to the people of Kenya, and allowing them to reconfirm their confidence in me. They already showed this trust and confidence in August when we believe they voted overwhelmingly for us.”   Schedule Saturday 14 October 2017, the President will hold a rally at Kenol in Murang’a County before he proceeds for another rally at Ndumberi grounds in his home county of Kiambu.  On Monday, 16 October 2017, President Kenyatta will visit Garissa, Mwingi (Kitui County) and Machakos County.  On Tuesday, the Head of State takes the campaigns for his re-election to Samburu, Nanyuki (Laikipia County) and Nakuru.  On Wednesday, the President heads to Kuria (Migori County), Kisii and Kericho where he will reiterate his message and vision of unity and transformation agenda that will guarantee a free, equitable, stable, inclusive and prosperous Kenya.  On Thursday, the President will visit Kitale (Trans Nzoia County), Vihiga and Nandi counties. On Friday, he will return to Nairobi for Mashujaa Day celebrations at Uhuru Park grounds, and later host a luncheon at the State House gardens.  On Saturday, the President will visit Mau (Narok County) and Kajiado.  On Sunday, 22 October 2017, the President will attend a National Prayer event. On Monday, 23 October 2017, the President will campaign in Nairobi.