Kenyans are yet to enjoy the constitutional provision on the right to access information held by the state, a new report has said. The State of Right to Information in Africa 2017 says there exist social and capacity barriers that hinder the realisation of the citizen’s right to information. This is despite legislation being in place. According to Article 35 of the Constitution, every citizen has the right to access information held by the state and information held by another person and required for the exercise or protection of any right or fundamental freedom. The State of Right to Information in Africa report says this is not the case. “A culture of opacity and lack of consultation and citizen participation continues to linger in Kenya’s public service. Secondly, Kenya contains in its statute books, laws that continue to impede the right of access to information such as the Official Secrets Act, the Penal Code and a culture of secrecy that has existed in Kenya’s public service,” it says. Sustainable development It says the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, with its 17 sustainable development goals, charts a new vision for cooperation. This is to ensure the prosperity and well-being of all societies, while protecting the planet and strengthening peace. The report says that one red thread weaving throughout the new agenda is that of information. This, the report says, will ensure all women and men have equal access to information, which in turn can help empower them with the skills and opportunities to create and share knowledge for the benefit of all. The implementation of the access to information Act 2016 that would set the state for an access to information regime in Kenya is yet to begin, the report says. It has called for the “repeal of all laws and policies that unduly restrict the right of access to information, including the Official Secrets Act and similar restrictive national legislation”. The report says Kenya’s Access to Information Act complies with the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights in various respects.