NASA will persist with mass action for "serious reforms" at IEBC and finish with major nationwide demonstrations on the October 26 voting day. Opposition leader Raila Odinga announced this on Wednesday, noting their demands have not been met so they will carry on despite police use of bullets and teargas. "Demonstrations will continue. October 26 will be the biggest demonstration of them all," he told a crowd of several thousand cheering supporters at Nairobi's Kamukunji grounds. Raila said the mega protests are part of their calls for reforms under the battle cry 'No reforms, No election'. The ODM leader explained that the coalition has looked critically at the Supreme Court's September 1 ruling that nullified the August 8 election that IEBC declared President Uhuru Kenyatta won. He said they also reviewed recommendations by the majority and then drafted their 12 irreducible minimums that the IEBC was to implement to guarantee a free, fair and credible election. Raila noted IEBC was compelled to conduct the repeat election in accordance with the constitution. "Instead, the commission has been dodging us and up to now they have not responded to our demands. We are now changing our slogan from 'No reforms! No election' to 'October no elections'," he said. He added: "We have seen how police are brutally killing our people but we shall not be intimidated by a police force. Kenya is a free country and must be ruled by law and constitutionalism, not jungle law." The ODM leader said the quantity of bullets and teargas does not matter because their firm quest is for electoral justice. He dismissed claims that members of the outlawed Mungiki sect have been killing their supporters. "Those are not Mungiki but members of the police force who disguise themselves as Mungiki to massacre our people," he said. Raila had asked his supporters not to go to the streets over IEBC reforms so they can honour those who have been killed on Mashujaa Day. Read: NASA to hold parallel Mashujaa Day fete for election protest victims Related: Declare state of emergency to deal with NASA poll boycott, Uhuru told Regarding commissioner Roselyne Akombe's resignation, the Opposition chief said IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati "issued a yellow card" and that it is now clear the election will not be credible. "We are aware that some three commissioners under State House operatives are holding the chairman hostage. They are being directed by State House but we say unless the commission guarantees an enabling environment for a free fair election, we shall never be part of a sham and flawed process." Two NASA MPs earlier made similar claims but did not give details. MPs Opiyo Wandayi (Unguja) and Elisha Odhiambo (Gem) said they want Chebukati to resign to save Kenya from a "looming crisis". "Chebukati has been under siege because of the veto powers of the four commissioners and the CEO who are serving their masters. Akombe has now confirmed to the world what we as NASA have been agitating for," Wandayi said. Read: Resign, admit challenges to prevent crisis, NASA MPs tell Chebukati Chebukati earlier admitted it was "difficult" to guarantee the repeat October 26 election would be free and fair. He invited political leaders in the country to discuss impediments to the vote, which was ordered by the Supreme Court on September 1. More on this: It's hard to guarantee free election, IEBC won't tolerate threats - Chebukati Also read: Chebukati vows to defend constitution, asks implicated officials to resign  