T o these people who have said to you, “Your father put a heavy yoke on us, but make it lighter”, tell them, “My little finger is thicker than my father’s waist. My father laid on you a heavy yoke; I will make it even heavier. My father scourged you with whips; I will scourge you with scorpions.” The two main antagonists in our local political scene appear to be hardening positions and digging in into what promises to be an epic political contest culminating in a presidential election, hopefully to be held on October 26. Opposition leader Raila Odinga has issued a raft of conditions that must be fulfilled prior to the election, failing which NASA will not participate. Jubilee, on the other hand, has rubbished them as impractical. A stalemate therefore looms at the most crucial time in our history. Jubilee has in the interim decided to take maximum advantage of its Parliamentary majority by executing changes to a number of laws, including those affecting the Supreme Court and the Independent Electoral Boundaries Commission. The upshot is to clip the powers of both the Chief Justice and the chairman of the IEBC. Jubilee is riding roughshod over the interests of the opposition and the more than six million voters who voted against them. NASA has termed this “an act of extreme provocation” and called for street protests. A number of Jubilee Party hawks, including vice chairman David Murathe, have called on President Uhuru Kenyatta to establish a benevolent dictatorship like that of Rwanda. Could Jubilee have already activated this modus operandi? And why is the proposal coming from Murathe, a former warrior of the second liberation? As his year mate at the University of Nairobi in the mid-70s, he constantly ran afoul of the Moi administration. When did he experience an epiphany to support autocracy? Ominous signs of tyranny and dictatorship are evident in our current political landscape. Meddling with independent state institutions is now commonplace. This practice was routine in the Jomo Kenyatta and Moi administrations. Truth be told our current leaders vehemently opposed our current Constitution. Is it any surprise that they have introduced constitutional amendments almost continually since 2015? The first was to amend the Judicial Service Act to have the commission submit three names for appointment of Chief Justice, thus giving the President leeway to appoint a ‘friendly candidate’. The next was a Miscellaneous Amendment that reduced the powers of Parliament and the National Police Service in the appointment of the Inspector General and his deputies. National Assembly majority leader Aden Duale has indicated that plans to whittle down the powers or removal of the Auditor General and chairman of the National Land Commission are on the cards. Jubilee has come down on governance NGOs such as Africog, Kenya Human Rights Commission and the International Development Law Organization like a tonne of bricks, deregistering some and outlawing others. University students were thoroughly clobbered last week for daring to demonstrate in support of Embakasi East MP Babu Owino, in an incident eerily reminiscent of the autocratic Moi regime. A hidden hand is at play in all these incidents, as it is impossible to believe that the chairman of the NGO Registration Board or Inspector General is acting unilaterally. The same hand is at play in pushing the National Assembly to create a parliamentary dictatorship. Our current leadership and Parliament appear to have entered into a subtle conspiracy to subvert the Constitution. This is in direct contravention of Chapter 6, which demands that they “exercise objectivity and impartiality in decision making and in ensuring decisions are not influenced by improper motives.” Their actions, if left unchecked, have the potential of leading to a parliamentary dictatorship as no one is safe from this rogue institution with a history of acting mainly for selfish gain. History will judge our leaders harshly if like Rehoboam they scourge us with scorpions.