Hydro-geologists sinking a borehole in Inkokirding’a village, Kajiado county, have come across gas suspected to be methane. Methane is a gas compound with the chemical formula CHâ‚„ and is a group-14 hydride. It is the simplest alkaline and the main constituent of natural underground gas. Experts from the Ministry of Mines and Geology have not confirmed the accidental discovery of the substance used to make cooking gas. Should this be confirmed, the fortunes of a county haunted by poverty worsened by drought may turn. Most of the county is semiarid and most of the local Maasai communities are pastoralists who entirely depend on livestock for food and upkeep. A team of consulting hydro-geologists led by Engineer Peter Supeyio had been working on a borehole in a farm belonging to Joseph Melonye ole Nakeel on Monday. After leaving at the end of the day, farmhands heard loud noises from the site. Sammy Ruto, a worker at the farm off Isinya-Kiserian road in Kajiado West, struck a match at a point of emission and there was an explosion. When The Star visited the farm on Thursday morning, blue flames were seen rising from the borehole’s metal lid. Supeyio, a former employee of water resource management authority, told the Star he has more than 30 years experience in hydro-geology but has never heard of such a discovery in Kajiado. The farm in question is in Kipeto area and lies on a 70-acre piece of land also marked as a wildlife conservancy area. "This was a surprise because all I know is that carbon dioxide and sulphur dioxide are common in Kajiado. Methane, as far as I know, is found in North Coast, around Lamu and Malindi," said Supeyio. Kajiado Deputy Governor Martin Moshisho termed the discovery a "great blessing for a county caught in the fangs of poverty and drought for many years". "This is wealth...we are striving to work with the national government on this one. We have contacted relevant government offices so further research is done to establish how much gas is underground," he said by phone. Reached for comment, Nakeel said his workers informed him of the discovery on Wednesday. "When I received the good news, I called all my friends. This is good news for the country, not  just Nakeel and his familym," he said on phone. Asked if he will be willing to surrender his land to the government, the farm owner said he is "more than ready". Nakeel bought the land in 2005 for dryland livestock husbandry and had thought of sinking  borehole before buying 70 cows, He contracted Kisima Borehole Drillers for the job which began last Thursday. By Sunday, they had drilled 200 metres into the ground but had not found enough water. Nakeel said the engineers  left the site that day after it became clear they wouldn't get any more water. He said he received reports on Wednesday that one of Ruto's test. The farmer, who lives in Ongata Rongai, said government experts should visit his farm to establish if it is safe to stay there. His neighbour David Sorimpan told The Star the fire has attracted hundreds of visitors from around the county for the last two days. "Many spent Wednesday night at the home," he said. The workers said the events are exciting. "We slept comfortably on Wednesday night because the fire from the borehole lit the entire compound. This area has a lot of lions and hyenas which normally disturb us at night. With this fire, animals will be kept at bay."            