Despite the crisis facing the country over
the controversial repeat Presidential election, fresh voices of political dissent
are emerging from parts of the Coast: These voices are calling for secession.  This time, the separatist voices are not coming
from the usual suspects — members of the Mombasa Republican Council, rather, they
are coming from a different source — newly elected ODM MPs from Kilifi county,
with the support of Governor Amason Kingi. The MPs are Kaloleni’s Paul Katana,
Magarini’s Michael King, Ganze’s Teddy Mwambire, Kilifi South’s Ken Chonga,
Rabai’s William Kamoti, Kilifi North’s Owen Baya, and the maverick Malindi’s
Aisha Jumwa.  Baya, the spokesperson of
the group, has lately been quite vocal in articulating issues affecting the
Coast.   According to Baya, their secessionist
demands should not be linked to the MRC — the group that has invariably been
criticised by security officials for advocating violence.  On the contrary, the Kilifi separatist advocate
group wants to use legal and constitutional means to attain their objective.  They plan to introduce a bill in Parliament
seeking a referendum, in which coastal communities would decide whether or not to
break away from the rest of Kenya. The secessionist talk has already elicited
emotions and memories of the past. It
has also faced criticisms from a cross section of Coast leaders, among them,
Chief of Defense Forces General Samson Mwathethe, himself a native of Kilifi county.  General Mwathethe has characterized the separatist
demands as dangerous, given that the country is now undergoing a crisis over
the repeat Presidential election.  But,
the politicians have rejected these criticisms and they have asked the General
to leave politics to politicians.   Majimbo politics have evoked emotional
memories, especially among the older generation. They remember the federalist politics of the
early 1960s that pitted the Kikuyu-Luo dominated Kanu and the minority Kadu leaders.
Some of them recall how their own son, the late Ronald Gideon Ngal fought
gallantly for a federal Kenyan state during the second Independence
constitutional talks at Lancaster House in London in February 1962.   That federalist (majimbo) constitution was meant
to protect minority rights.  It divided Kenya
into autonomous provinces (now called regions), a central government with a
Lower House of Representatives and a Senate to represent all the districts to
ensure participation of minority groups in the central government.   The regions were each to have legislatures
and executive bodies of their own, a police force and civil service.  They were also entitled to receive a fixed
amount of central government tax revenues, and the powers to veto certain central
government appointments.  Any institutional
changes affecting powers of the regions needed the ratification of two-thirds
majority from both Houses of Parliament. However, the majimbo system of government is
not what President Jomo Kenyatta and Kanu wanted.  In 1964, just one year after Independence,
Kenyatta and his team abolished majimbo and transformed Kenya into a strong
unitary and centralised state.   Nevertheless, coastal communities have
remained loyal to majimboism, the legacy of Ngala. Today,it remains the foundation of Coast
politics, even in its mild form known as devolution.   The secession talk at the Coast was first
pronounced publicly by the MRC. However,
relentless efforts by security organs have since disabled the group.  Lately, there has been claims that it is
Mombasa-centric to serve particular interests of Arab Sultanate leftovers that own
huge tracts of land on the coastal strip. 
The Mijikenda have only been used as pawns to fulfill this objective.   Whatever the political thought behind Coast
secession, there are numerous hurdles to be surmounted before any dream to secede
is to be realised, if at all.  The first of
these hurdles is the mobilisation of the diverse ethnic groups across the
region to support the idea.  With
splintered viewpoints, some groups may resist the secession plan.      The second hurdle is constitutional. Even if the present Constitution has some provisions
with regard to self-determination for minority groups, the same documents
provides for a unitary state. Furthermore, secession of the Coast would trigger similar demands from
other marginalised regions, notably, Northeastern.  Kenya would be faced with balkanization of
the state. The Kilifi MPs and their governor have told
the world that they want to achieve the separatist demands through non-violence.
But there is also the problem of getting support from MPs outside the region to
constitute a referendum. Some of the legislators or the people they represent,
are themselves direct or indirect beneficiaries from the coastal injustices and
marginalization of the region.  In other
words, they have contributed the present state of affairs.  These MPs and/or their constituents would not
risk losing their wealth in a Coast secessionist experiment. Further, is the local capacity to sustain separatism.  As things stand, the region lacks the
necessary requisites to successfully manage a separate and sovereign state.  These deficiencies include high levels of
literacy, human resource availability, security and defense arrangements and
infrastructures.   Also, history has shown that separatism is
not the answer to all problems facing communities.  If anything, separatism has only served to fuel
ethnic violence.   We have examples in the
far off countries such as Bosnia and Eritrea and Somalia, the latter a
homogeneous failed state.  It is too early to discern the direction
the secessionist talk would take. 
However, my view is that strengthened devolution is one available option
coastal communities and leaders should pursue relentlessly in trying to address
some of the age-old problems afflicting them. 
 Coast MPs should supplement
devolution by initiating legislations in Parliament that are relevant to
coastal interests, such as land reform.   This is what the late famous politician Karisa
Maitha did when he was confronted with the problem and illegality of tapping,
distribution, sale and consumption of mnazi — the most popular natural
alcoholic drink across the Coast.  Maitha
mobilised fellow MPs to support a motion that sought to legalize the
drink.  He succeeded.  Secessionism in the Kenya case is an
emotive concept that only serves populist politics.                