Kiambu Town constituency residents on Wednesday marched to Governor Ferdinand Waititu’s office and urged him to swiftly end runaway crime. They were drawn from Kanunga, Ndumberi, Thindigua, Kiamumbi, Tinganga and Riabai villages. They say hardly a day goes by without muggings, house break-ins, stealing and burning of houses. Waititu phoned county police commander Adiel Nyange and county commissioner Wilson Wanyanga and called them for a meeting to address crime. “We feel unsafe in our homes, since we are being terrorised by criminals who are not even afraid of police,” a residentsaid on Wednesday. The person declined to be named for fear of being targetted by hoodlums.   Residents say they discuss the problem  in hushed voices and do not want to be named because if one is spotted grumbling, he or she could be the next target. The latest victim was 74-year-old Hannah Wambui from Kanunga village, whose house was torched on Friday last week, while she was inside. She died. Her form two grandson managed to escape.  Wambui was an anti-crime crusader and a member of the Nyumba Kumi initiative. She publiclly named criminals and it is said this could have led to her murder. Area chief Jane Gichuhi has said the crime rate is alarming. She said she suspects three former convicts to be the perpetrators. “We suspect the former convicts to be behind the incidents. They have formed a notorious gang, which has made the area inhabitable. They have fled, but we are doing everything possible to nab them,” Gichuhi said. The gang is said to have raided several homes and stolen livestock, which they slaughter and sell.  On Monday, residents said leaflets were dropped in Kanunga. They said the leaflets warned that four more houses will be burned. Kiambu police boss Duncan Nguthu said they have intensified patrols.  He said no suspect has been arrested in connection with the burning of Wambui’s home, since no one has recorded a statement.  Nguthu termed the burning of crime fighter Wambui’s home “an isolated case”.