Loyal 1,600 former Rift Valley Railways workers who accepted the six-month contract at Kenya Railways Corporation will know if they are going to be retained by their new employer by end of this month. This even as those against the transfer wait in the cold until the Labour Relations Court determines the case in which they challenged the terms of the hand-over. The employees had accused RVR and KRC of side-stepping them in transfer talks and that the new employer was planning to sack some of them after the six month contract. They said that KRC wanted them to apply afresh for their positions or face redundancy. They also rejected the six-month probation contracts offered by KRC, insisting that the corporation must maintain their permanent contracts as given by their former employer. The court, on September 25, granted them temporary orders barring their transfer back to the Kenya Railways Corporation. Speaking to the Star, KRC managing director Atanas Maina said all those that did not go to court were handed six month contracts starting September 1 and are in talks about their future at the corporation. ‘’Those who did not go to court are currently at work even as we look forward to reaching an agreement on their future at KRC at the end of this month. Only few of them went to court,’’ said Maina. Railways Worker Union secretary general John Chumo said the union is satisfied with engagements between workers and KRC and that those who went to court are not their members. “Most of our members are at work and they are waiting for further directions from KRC. We want the corporation to consider each one of them, whether it decides to oversee the operations or contract another firm to run the old railway,’’ said Chumo. There have been a tag of war between RVR and KRC management especially on transfer of workforce since the court terminated RVR’s 25 years concession to run the Kenya- Uganda railway at the end of July. The two, for instance, differed on who was to settle the 30-days handover period payroll, delaying the August salary for about 3,000 former employees of RVR. In its July 31 ruling, the High Court ordered KRC to take back both assets and workforce from RVR. KRC had also declined to absorb workers from the RVR citing a 2006 agreement which indicated that employees and other obligations such as unpaid suppliers and debts to financial institutions would remain the concern of RVR should the concession come to an end or be terminated. Elsewhere, the Ugandan government early this week terminated the RVR concession for running Uganda’s metre gauge railway.