Mau Mau veterans in Nyandarua will now enjoy free medical care courtesy of the county government, Governor Francis Kimemia has said. Speaking during Mashujaa Day celebrations at Rurinja Stadium in Njabini, Kimemia said the freedom fighters are wallowing in absolute poverty years after the end of the war for independence. "This is the hometown of one of the most profound heroines of Kenya, Mrs Mukami Kimathi. I applaud these heroes (and heroines) whose invaluable sacrifices have made us what we are," he said. Nyandarua, with its expansive Aberdares ranges, was one of the theatres of the war between indigenous forces of liberation and the colonial government. Most residents are either veterans or direct descendants of men and women who actively opposed the colonial rule. "I intend to support Mau Mau heroes who still have bullets lodged in their bodies. We will assist them to get treated as quickly as possible. I wish also to pursue their meeting with President Uhuru Kenyatta immediately he has been sworn in," he said. The Governor said the veterans need stable medical insurance. "We will place all Mau Mau heroes aged over 80 years for free on the National Hospital Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) system and ensure they all get their 'Pesa ya Wazee'," he said. The County Government will also rehabilitate the many Mau Mau caves across Nyandarua and gazette them for posterity. He said a museum will also be constructed by the National Government. "I am encouraging the creation of hotels along the Aberdares to host tourism. We are inviting environmentalists to conserve the Kinangop and Lake Ol Bolossat rare birds and its unique eco-system," he said. The County Government is supporting high altitude training centres of excellence along the scenic Aberdares up to Lake Ol'Bollosat. Governor Kimemia thanked Kinangop residents for supporting him and President Kenyatta in the recent General Election. He also said title deeds for colonial villages are nearing completion and issuance will be done soon to genuine owners. Read: Nyeri home of Mau Mau struggle to host Madaraka Day on June 1