The Supreme Court will deliver its ruling next Tuesday on IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati's role in the repeat election. The ruling follows submissions by representatives of Jubilee Party and the National Super Alliance. The judges heard the case Chebukati filed on whether he has powers to
correct errors or amend Forms 34B. He wants to ensure mistakes from the August 8 poll are corrected. Chief
Justice David Maraga, who is leading the bench, said the ruling will be delivered at 11.30am.  Deputy Chief
Justice Philomena Mwilu, Jackton Ojwang, Mohammed Ibrahim, Smokin
Wanjala, Njoki Ndung’u and Isaac Lenaola also heard the petition. Chebukati wants the judges
to explain his role in the rerun scheduled for October 26. President Uhuru Kenyatta says he is ready but Raila Odinga has withdrawn and demanded fresh nominations and a fresh process. More on this: Raila unjust for wasting Kenyans' Sh12b, we're ready for swearing-in - UhuRuto Also read: Praise, rebuke for Raila after election withdrawal, IEBC told to clean house The IEBC boss also wants to know if he
has powers to amend Forms 34 B sent to the national tallying centre
from constituencies - if they differ from results in
Forms 34A after verification. The chairman said there is confusion because
the court has pronounced itself in a contradictory manner over what he
can and cannot do as the presidential returning officer. "It is, therefore necessary that the chairperson’s role is clearly stated," he said. The Court of Appeal, in a case by Maina Kiai, ruled IEBC cannot alter the presidential election results announced by its
returning officers in constituencies. The decision means results announced at the constituency level are final and
all that is expected at the national level is addition. Through Iseme Kamau &
Maema advocates, Chebukati said confusion arises from the majority
judges’ who criticised him for not verifying all the forms from the
constituencies. "The failure by the first respondent to verify the
results in consultation with the second respondent, before the latter
declared them, therefore, went against the expectation of Article 138( 3
) (c) of the Constitution," the majority ruled In
nullifying Uhuru’s win, the judges said the duty to verify results before
declaring them ensures they are recorded at polling stations and are not varied, changes or altered. Based on the Court of Appeal ruling, Chebukati argues that his role was clearly "delineated and closely circumscribed".  