When she made her debut in active politics in 2013, Homa Bay woman representative Gladys Wanga was not a renowned politician, as she is now. But according to her, politics is not new, since she grew up in a political family. The woman representative took the bull by its horns when she openly criticised the Salaries and Remuneration Commission for effecting a pay cut for MPs' salaries and allowances in the 12th Parliament. Speaking to the Star in Homa Bay town, she defended her stand on the grounds that their work is for the well-being of Kenyans. Wanga adds that the money saved through the salary pay cut does not add any value to lives of Kenyans. “I spoke for many MPs who just did not want to come out openly on the matter. I’m sure the comments were not made in bad faith because I know the importance of MPs earning more funds,” she says. She says money saved using the salary cut is not likely to be spent in a manner that can benefit Kenyans. The legislator says evading the salary cut will enable them to offer more financial aid to their electorate, who are financially challenged. “A lot of the money which remains at the national level elicits many scandals. Giving us the desirable salaries will enable our electorates also to benefit from it,” she says. MENTORED TO GREATNESS Wanga said she followed in the footsteps of her late father, councillor John Nyasuna. “Political mentorship I got as early as when I was a child. I used to attend political meetings with my father when he was the chair for the now-defunct Kisumu County Council,” Wanga says. She was also a student leader in high school and became the first woman secretary general of the Students' Union at Kenyatta University. The woman representative, whose rise up the political ladder is now indisputable, attributes her growth to mentorship programmes she has initiated in the county. She says the initiatives enabled her to win the Homa Bay county ODM chairperson. Wanga says the programmes, including Mama County Says and Ting’ Nyako Malo (Uplift the Girl Child), aimed at promoting girl child education, which enabled her to interact with many residents. She says the background of the girl child programme is sometimes misunderstood. “It’s not a ticket for encouraging pregnancies among teenage girls, but to uplift education standards in the county so that they can achieve their dreams in life," Wanga says. She is also the brains behind the Homa Bay County Women's Sacco, which has drawn at least 2,000 in membership. “I didn’t know the impact these programmes could create in my political journey. When I contested the county ODM chair position, I received overwhelming support from the party members,” she says. ECONOMIC EMPOWERMENT The woman representative says women play integral part in the development of a family, and, therefore, they need economic empowerment. “Women perform many roles in their households, and that’s why they must get a source of money for business. A penny given to a woman is more likely to benefit a family and society, unlike the other gender. Hence they need economic support,” Wanga says. Her ardent support for the ODM and leader Raila Odinga easily enabled her to become the NASA presidential campaign team leader in Nyanza ahead of the August 8 General Election. Counties in Nyanza, which the team traversed in campaigns, included Nyamira, Migori, Kisii, Kisumu, Homa Bay and Siaya. Wanga said her team, which included Raila’s elder brother Oburu Oginga and politician Bob Madanje, were tasked with delivering on the six-piece voting style. She says they tried their best, despite challenges to achieve the goal. “I must admit that campaigns weren’t a walk in the park. But we’re happy we delivered on all governor and senator seats in the region, plus many MP seats,” she says. Wanga says they ensured they explained to residents the reason why they were pushing for the agenda. “Convincing locals who complained of the party's poor primaries wasn’t easy. We ensured our approach was violence-free,” she says. BLAZING THE GENDER TRAIL Wanga says she is the only woman ODM county chairperson in the whole country. She clinched the seat after defeating Homa Bay Town MP Peter Kaluma in the party's elections. “As Gladys, I had never thought about going for the ODM Homa Bay chairperson seat, but I received many phone calls from party members, leaders and officials that I was the best person to lead the party in county,” she says. “As a leader I did not want to disappoint our people, because it looked like they had seen good leadership qualities during this short time I have served them as woman representative." The county ODM chair vows to ensure they expand their team so it remains strong and supports Raila ahead of a repeat presidential poll scheduled for October 26 [Raila has since pulled out and called for fresh poll in 90 days, but the IEBC says he is yet to formally withdraw and that the October 26 date stands]. Wanga says they are working together with the region’s party leaders for a strong campaign for Raila. “The coming presidential election is one of its own since it has never happened in Kenya before. We’re expanding our team to increase voter turnout from the numbers we had in the August 8 poll,” she says. Through their team, they ensured they got all MP seats in Homa Bay and Siaya counties. Wanga highlights male chauvinism as a problem she faces when discharging her duties, especially in party politics. She describes perpetrators as being those who drag the country backward. “Some male politicians still don’t believe in women leadership. They have deafened their ears on the party laid structure on gender equality. The politicians practice an archaic way of life,” she says. The woman representative links the male chauvinism to the failure of the 11th Parliament to realise the two-thirds gender rule. She says most members of National Assembly are reluctant to support the law because they base their arguments on unfounded fears. “But I hope this 12th Parliament will ensure it does what their predecessor failed to do. Otherwise, Kenyans will judge it harshly,” Wanga says. The legislator counts among her achievement her advocacy on the introduction of the Cancer Bill in the 11thParliament. She says the bill ensures more resources are channelled towards the disease management. Wanga is now touted to be gunning for Homa Bay governor in 2022, despite her not coming out openly to say it. “People have a right to say what they want, provided they don’t infringe on others' right,” she says. +BIOGRAPHY 1981- Born in Wang’aya, Kano, Kisumu county 1986-1993- Aga Khan Primary School, Kisumu 1994-1998- Kisumu Girls' High School 2000-2004- Kenyatta University 2004-2009- Community projects manager at Trust for African RockArt 2009-2013- Manager at Liverpool VCT in Nairobi      