Former Police IG David Kimaiyo has asked the IEBC to declare President Uhuru Kenyatta the winner, without repeating elections in four Nyanza counties. He made the appeal on Sunday as Jubilee Party leaders and backers also increase pressure on the electoral body to declare Uhuru President following Thursday's repeat poll. They include Tourism CS Najib Balala and former Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar. Kimaiyo said it would be meaningless for the IEBC to repeat the postponed polls in Nyanza because the potential totals cannot change the outcome. Uhuru already has garnered at least 7.4 million votes. The polls were postponed indefinitely in NASA strongholds because of violence and resistance to any voting. He said the votes are close to what the President won in the August 8 General Election. His victory was nullified on September 1 by the Supreme Court. The former top cop said the election was successful in 43 counties and Uhuru attained the requisite 25 per cent in at least 24 counties. The IEBC said elections will be carried out afresh in Kisumu, Siaya, Migori and Homa Bay counties after protesters prevented electoral officials from conducting the elections on Thursday. “I want to ask IEBC not to waste time. Declare President Uhuru Kenyatta as President so that swearing in plans begins,” He said. Kimaiyo said any delays in declaring the winner will unnecessarily prolong tension and uncertainty and may plunge the country into a state of instability. He said the unending political mood and insecurity in various parts of the country will jeopardise national exams beginning today. “Our children are about to start their KCSE exams Tuesday and we want them to sit their exams in peace,” Kimaiyo said. He said, “The declaration of a substantive President should have been done like yesterday. This country should move on.” Kimaiyo lost the Elgeyo Marakwet Senate seat to Kipchumba Murkomen, the leader of the majority. He Uhuru to unite the divided country. “I am urging the President to meet leaders from across the political divide and ensure the country is united,” he said. Kimaiyo said it is not proper for a democratic country to run without a substantive commander-in-chief of the defense forces, saying state security might be compromised.