The repeat presidential election confirms "the people are supreme", William Ruto has said, sparking mixed reactions by Kenyans on Twitter. On Twitter on Saturday, the Deputy President wrote: "Evidently it doesn't matter how powerful/popular one or their party imagines to be, the repeat elections confirm the PEOPLE ARE SUPREME." The election was to be a hot contest between President Uhuru Kenyatta of Jubilee Party and Raila Odinga of the National Super Alliance which is now a resistance movement. Uhuru will likely win as Raila withdrew and asked his supporters to stay away from polling stations. Violent protests in Kisumu, Migori, Siaya and Homa Bay have forced IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati to reschedule repeat elections that were to take place on Saturday. Politicians have said Kenyans have the right to vote or not and have urged peace as the tally continues. More on this: IEBC cancels polls in Nyanza as tally goes on Also read: Let IEBC finish votes count, shun violence - Kazungu and Charo "RIGGING SUPREME" A Twitter user who reacted to Ruto's remarks said rigging is supreme. "The cooking skills are more supreme it doesn't matter if you show up and vote, JP will rig all way," said '@afribee' John Bosco said Ruto should not take pride "thievery in board daylight". Raila and other Opposition leaders accused IEBC, Jubilee Party, Al Ghurair and Safaricom of involvement in rigging but all these parties have denied the allegations. A user identified as Polycarp said: "Evidently It doesn't matter how powerful [Uhuru or Jubilee Party] imagines to be. The sham election confirms rigging is supreme." Brian Oduba claimed the turnout level was 28 per cent but that pro-government people want the voter numbers to get to eight million. The voter turnout stands at about six million compared to 14 million out of 19 million registered voters in August. In August, Uhuru was declared a winner with 8.3 million votes in the nullified election while Raila got 6.7 million votes. More on this: With broken institutions and a reeling Opposition, what’s next for Kenya? Also read: In Kenya election re-run, polling incomplete and next steps uncertain '@JovialJulyux' said: "I think stealing money from the government and grabbing people's land is more popular, and that explains your popularity now." The DP had been accused of corruption and land grabbing but he denied these claims. Macdonald Lumum said: "Humble yourself at this moment, sir. Our country is divided and chest-thumping is dangerous in a polarised nation." '@Shazakinyi' said: "Manufactured figures are not supreme. Majority boycotted meaning Raila ndio Baba wa taifa na ndio kusema hii Kenya. (Raila is the father of the nation). Sugoi awaits you," EYES ON 2022 Among those who agreed with Ruto, one Kipleting said he was glad he voted for Uhuru. "Make sure I'm not told to vote for the third time. I'm tired of your sideshows. Let our numbers count," he told Ruto. Kararu Mucheke said: "IEBC announced an election  and l went to vote. Those who were told by OTHERS not to vote should hold their peace till 2022." David Kinuthia was disappointed that people insult each other. "How do these people relate with their peers? Why insult someone you don't even know and have never met?" Ben Fetcher wrote: "Yes sir, God is with us. We voted you because we trust your delivery. Sasa tuongee mambo ya 2022. Ama namna gani (Let us talk 2022 or what do you think?)." On Friday, Opposition co-principal Moses Wetang'ula said the fresh presidential poll has terribly failed and should, therefore, be nullified. Wetangula asked  Chebukati to call a fresh election as this one was "shambolic and shameful". More on this: Wetang'ula tells Chebukati to nullify rerun poll for fresh exercise