Athletics Kenya have nominated executive committee member Barnabas Korir as Chef de Mission to the 2018 Commonwealth Games slated for April next year. Korir replaces AK President Lt. Gen (Rtd) Jackson Tuwei, who was appointed last Friday for the position but later turned it down owing to work commitment. Nock President Paul Tergat said they are yet to officially receive a letter from AK appointing Korir in the position after Tuwei declined to take up the role. But sources familiar with the scenario noted that Korir is best placed bet to replace Tuwei for the coveted position. Tergat, however, said that they want to do things differently under his watch and the federations will play a bigger role when it comes to international competition. “ Nocl belongs to all federations and unlike in the past when such trips were a preserve of the executive, this time round the federations will have to turns in the management of teams travelling to the Olympics and Commonwealth Games in the future. That is why AK must appoint the Chef de Mission after Tuwei turned down the offer and communicate to us officially,” he noted. He added: “ In previous years the executive had a lot of say but now the ball is in the court of the federations who will have greater say in the management and positions when teams travel to the major championships.” Korir if confirmed will be deputised by Acting Commissioner of Sports Maina Kamau. Kenya Judo Association chairman Shadrack Maluki who is also the Nock first vice chairman was appointed as the general team manager and will be deputised by former Maseno High School Principal Paul Otula. Deputy secretary general Francis Mutuku from the Kenya Lawn Tennis Association will travel as the executive Officer while the Kenya Rugby Union have been asked to nominate one person to deputise him. Meanwhile, Kenya Swimming Federation’s Winnie Kamau will be in charge of managing the women’s team while Nock treasurer Antony Kariuki will still be mandated to manage the finances for the Commonwealth Games. Paul Rwambo will be Kenya’s overall chief medical officer. The management team is now expected to plan Kenya’s preparations for the Commonwealth Games. This will include naming the team, preparations and final travel. The Commonwealth Games will be hosted in Gold Coast, Queensland, Australia between April 4 and 15 next year. Over 6,600 athletes and team officials from 70 nations and territories will converge in the Gold Coast for an 11-day sporting and cultural event.