Kenya lock Simon Muniafu has signed a one year deal with French second division club Decazeville. Muniafu joined the club early this month and will play for them for the better part of next year after a successful three-year stint with Impala. Muniafu joined Impala and played for the age-grade teams and became a valuable member for the team, where has been a regular for the past three seasons, helping them to reach the 2016 Kenya Cup final last year, where they lost to Kabras. Kenya Simbas’ assistant coach Dominique Habimana wished Muniafu well and remains hopeful that he will be available for the Rugby World Cup qualifiers in South Africa next year. “Well, he has started his professional career in France but we are in contact with him. We will see if he will be available for the qualifiers since he has been our starting second row for the past three years thus very integral to us,” added Habimana. New Zealand-based William Ambaka, who plies his trade for Manuwatu Turbos, is in contention to play for the national team, according to Habimana. Habimana said competition for places in the squad has been intense ahead of the upcoming Four Nations Tour and the Rugby World Cup qualifiers next year. “We are building depth for all the positions and ensuring we pick the best available players for the upcoming tour and the World Cup qualifiers next year,” said Habimana. The team for next month’s Four Nations tournament is slated to be named this week with the team departing on November 7. The Simbas are scheduled to face Chile, Russia and hosts Hong Kong. Elsewhere, Edwin ‘Pablo’ Machanje has been named new Mwamba RFC captain for the 2017/2018 season. The Kenya 15s international replaces Salaton Muturi, who has been the Kulabu captain since 2012. Machanje will be deputised by Brad Owako - who recently made his Simbas debut - and Michael Agevi. According to a statement Mwamba has also set up a leadership group that includes the captain and his assistants, George Mutuku, Eugene Sudi, Matt Wanjia and Paul Wahome. The changes were announced by Edwin Waita, the club’s Director of Rugby.