Kenya Defence Forces' elite units have completed a two-week joint specialised training on counter terrorism with the Jordanian Armed Forces. Some 100 soldiers from the Special Forces and Ranger Regiment units were among those in the joint training with Jordan's Quick Reaction Force. The training aimed at enhancing operational capability in responding rapidly to any emerging threats faced by both Kenya and Jordan. They also learned new ways of fighting terrorism, including responding to different kinds of attacks, how to subdue terrorists who hijack planes and how to respond to attacks in villages. KDF also received equipment from the JAF in the second joint training exercise between the two forces. The first took place at the Humanitarian and Peace Support School in Embakasi Garrison in September last year. Also read: KDF troops in Jordan for Swift Eagle 2017 military training Chief of the Defence Forces General Samson Mwathethe on Wednesday noted the skills exchange exercise allowed the two countries to operate under the same conditions, especially of dealing with refugees. Mwathethe said the attacks in Kenya that originate from the refugee camps and other asymmetrical challenges are the same as those in Jordan. "We believe doing the same exercise under the same conditions will enable us learn from each other and develop better skills to deal with these challenge. We have exchanged knowledge, ideas and shared our cultural differences to the benefit of both countries," the General said. Defence CS Raychelle Omamo said it is satisfying and exciting to see Kenyans and Jordanians training together to improve security in both countries. She said the cooperation between Kenya and Jordan has borne fruits partnership that will assist both countries to deal with many security challenges. "The threats that we face in this world today are threats that one country cannot surmount alone. They are cross border, asymmetrical and require deep cooperation between friends," Omamo said.  "I am glad that our Kenyan forces were able to come all the way to Jordan to join the JAF who previously came to Kenya and that demonstrates the depth of friendship between the two countries." They spoke during the closure of the exercise. The troops are expected back to the country this week.  KDF Chief of Training officer Brigadier Charles Kang'ethe, who led the Kenyan contingent, said skills displayed byKenyan troops were satisfactory. He thanked the soldiers for professional displays both at the training area and throughout their stay in Jordan.