Now, we don’t just exist in the physical world, but also have digital presence. Our identity online is as valid as the physical one. What you do on the web affects the realities of your business. However, this is a prevalent concept that some people are yet to grasp in business. To this group, the online world is a fad despite the contrary evidence. Hence, they are not careful to cultivate and manage their online presence for profit. As professional and entrepreneurs, we are in an online ecosystem where those who know how to maximize their web presence, win. So, how do you build a strong digital presence? Here are three ways. Be Brand Conscious: As a professional and entrepreneur, understand that: you are a brand. Not just your organization, but you. People with effective digital presence understand this fact and they take advantage of it. There are many voices out there and one simple way to establish your voice is to see yourself as a brand name – whether you’re a school teacher, employee, entrepreneur, CEO, whatever your profession. This consciousness will set you apart from the average person and your behavior online would be different. Have a Home: Where can we find you online? Where do you express your views? Where does your tribe assemble? How do you lead online?Beyond social media pages, effective professionals have an online home. If you don’t have a functional online home, digital effectiveness is difficult. One company that helps people get online homes in this region is Buy Domain Kenya, a leading website hosting company in Kenya. They help you get a personal domain name that is uniquely yours through their .me.ke platform. That way you could have a professional outlook online where people can find out details about who you are and what you do. Like your physical home or property, a personal domain name is your ‘land’ or home on the web. Create Great Content: Daily we create content with our smart phones in different ways, place them on social media and fish for likes and comments. That’s fine. But the effective professional, who is brand conscious and has an online home, does things differently. They purposefully create content that is profitable, boosts their image and helps them achieve their professional goals. These professionals design content that solves problems for others, provides answers and gives practical, useful help to people. They lead with content and as a result, their influence grows exponentially. Email: etoolbox@theyouideology.com