THAT the NASA chiefs have fallen out with a section of powerful Western diplomats in Kenya is now an open secret. What is unknown is the level of mistrust. Well, it appears the relationship between an influential Western envoy and opposition chief Raila Odinga is irreparable. Sources whisper to Corridors that just a day before Raila announced his dramatic withdrawal from the presidential race, the diplomat tried in vain to reach the ex-Prime Minister. He is reported to have called six times, but Raila declined to pick up his phone. The envoy has been profiled by NASA as a Jubilee sympathiser, feeding his bosses with the status quo narrative. His alleged dalliance with the state –– always talking about peace and stability rather than the root cause of the current political crisis –– is said to be behind the latest NASA diplomatic offensive. ****** A lawyer who guaranteed a construction company millions of shillings as security with a title deed for a building in Nairobi’s Eastleigh is fired-up. This member of the Kenyan Bar gave the road construction firm the document in order to access Sh350 million initial payment from the government for the tarmacking of the Sh3.5 billion road in Northern Kenya. However, the contractor, with close links to top Jubilee officials, refused to abide by the terms after the mobilisation money hit their account. Given that no tax was paid to KRA for the initial payment, the lawyer is worried that his property could risk auction by the taxman if the rogue contractor still remains at large. ****** WHY isn't the National Treasury releasing county funds, despite senators approving the monthly disbursement schedule running into June next year? This is a question many lawmakers, particularly from NASA, are seeking answers to from the Exchequer, headed by Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich. The governors, led by their chairman Josphat Nanok, have been lamenting about Treasury’s failure to release the funds since July this year. Word has it that some agitated opposition legislators were heard saying Jubilee’s top leaders must be having a hand in Treasury, starving the counties for fear that NASA governors would use part of the funds to finance their presidential candidate Raila Odinga's kitty.  ****** DID the 'Nairobi Business Community's' intention to contain opposition protesters flop? Corridors has been told a senior Jubilee MP was over the weekend heard shouting himself hoarse over the phone to an unidentified person, complaining how they spent a lot of money to have the 'vijana' contain opposition rallies from being successful within Nairobi. The MP – almost punching the wall – claimed the outfit has not lived up to expectations, despite the huge investment. ******            