People living with HIV and are adhering to their medication procedures cannot transmit the virus, the Center for Disease Control has said. The centre said that clinical trials have shown that those who have suppressed their viral load as a result of medication cannot infect their sexual partners. CDC directors Eugene McCray and Jonathan Mermin said they hoped the declaration will reduce stigma that HIV-positive people face. "When ART results in viral suppression, defined as less than 200 copies/ml or undetectable levels, it prevents sexual HIV transmission,” they said.  They said scientific
advances have shown that Anti-Retroviral Therapy preserves the health
of people living with HIV. "We also have strong evidence of the
prevention effectiveness of ART," they said. Their declaration was published on the centre's website during the National Gay Men's HIV/AIDS Awareness Day on September 27.  After trials including thousands of couples
and many acts of sex without a condom or pre-exposure
prophylaxis, the global health body noted that no HIV transmissions to an HIV-negative partner
were observed when the HIV-positive person was virally suppressed. “This means that people who take ART daily as prescribed and achieve and maintain an undetectable viral load have effectively no risk of sexually transmitting the virus to an HIV-negative partner,” CDC said.  The announcement comes as a big win to discordant couples and other HIV positive people who have often been stigmatised by the society. Medics lauded the announcement saying it will help in ensuring that HIV positive people adhere to treatment in order to achieve a low viral load.  They have however warned that they need to continue with other preventive measures of reducing HIV infections. It takes between one to three months for a HIV positive persons’ viral load to reduce if they strictly adhere to their medication.  Adherence to medication is one of the major problems facing anti-HIV crusaders with adolescents and youth abandoning ARVs because of stigmatisation. An estimated 1.6 million people in Kenya are HIV positive.