Kenya Revenue Authority plans to recover at least Sh3.6 billion per year from non-alcoholic beverages, bottled water, juices and cosmetics industry when excise duty stamp regulations come into effect next week. According to commissioner for domestic taxes Benson Korongo, the decision to extend use of excise stamps to the non-alcoholic sector was mainly informed by the need to address concerns on the proliferation of unregulated products and enhancing tax revenue. “Currently, revenue performance in this sector is at less than 40 per cent. The roll-out of EGMS to this sector is aimed at reversing this poor tax compliance,” he told The Star. The regulator asked all affected manufacturers to submit full details of their brands for registration in the Excise Goods Management System (EGMS) system by October 19. The stamp must be affixed on all the beverages. Cosmetic products, including beauty, hair and skin care products other than medicaments, perfumes and toilet waters, shaving products, personal deodorants and bath preparations among other perfumery, cosmetic or toilet preparations will also be required to comply with the new orders. The cosmetic industry is among the worst hit by fake goods in the country. A report by the Anti-counterfeit Agency of Kenya said that the country loses approximately $1 million (Sh100 million) monthly as a result of fake beauty products finding their way to consumers. The regulator made the announcement in a gazette notice of 11 October, which said that from November 1, all affected goods that are imported into the country as well as those manufactured locally must bear the regulator’s stamp. The excise duty stamps, rolled out in 2013 and initially focused on tobacco products, wines and spirits, have seen KRA extend its enforcement to other alcoholic beverages, and now non alcoholic and bottled drinks to rid the market of counterfeit products. The regulator has also been engaging stakeholders to ensure a smooth implementation of the requirements. There is positive outcome for both KRA and manufacturers after implementation of the system on tobacco, wines and spirits led to increase in revenue collection and improved sales of these products.   