    A presidential election will take place
this Thursday. On September 1, the Supreme Court annulled the results of the
August 8 election and instructed that the IEBC should conduct a re-run within
60 days. That is now happening but the opposition
think that it will be just a charade as the fundamental problems inside the
IEBC have not been fixed. Consequently they have called for a boycott and vowed
‘No Reforms, No Elections.’ It is the right of any Kenyan to withhold
their vote in protest. This must be respected. But it is equally the right of
all Kenyans to be allowed to vote if they wish to do so. This week there is a risk of slipping back
into the dark days of 2008 if Kenyans feel that they are entitled to use
violence to prevent the election from taking place. This risk is amplified if the state feels
it is entitled to unleash violence against protestors to ensure that the
election takes place. This could trigger off a downward spiral of violence. It is therefore essential that all Kenyan
leaders – including Raila Odinga and Uhuru Kenyatta – call for calm and
tolerance this week. Kenya will not disappear after October 26.
Whoever is president will be president for all Kenyans – not just president for
Jubilee voters or Nasa supporters. Kenya today is a divided country. Both the
government and the opposition must share the blame. Reconciliation will be needed in the months
to come if Kenya is to progress forwards as a united nation. Our leaders - in
politics, law, business and religion – must set an example of moderation and tolerance
in this very difficult time, something that few have done so far. We must not
allow Kenya to be divided any further. Kenya needs to become more inclusive. We must stay calm and respect all our
brothers and sisters this week, whatever their political persuasion. We are all
Kenyans and we will all have to live together for many years to come.   Quote of the day: "Let no one think that flexibility and a predisposition to compromise is a sign of weakness or a sell-out."  - President Paul Kagame was born on 23 October, 1957      