The President has reaffirmed his pledge to award former Meru Governor Peter Munya with a position in government after the October 26 poll. Uhuru Kenyatta said on Friday that he will fulfill the promise made during campaigns before August 8 election.  He said at that time that he would give the job to the loser of the race that was a hot contest between Munya and former Senator Kiraitu Murungi. Munya rejoined Jubilee party after a short stint in NASA following his loss to Kiraitu. The two had been wrangling but reconciled to increase Uhuru's support in the county. Uhuru told them to resolve all their other outstanding issues in readiness for his repeat race against NASA leader Raila Odinga and for the sake of unity. "After October 26, Peter Munya will join us in the national government as I had promised before," Uhuru said at Laare in Meru, where he returned on Friday to rally supporters. This was the first of more than 10 rallies that he addressed. Read: Kiraitu and Munya bury hatchet, to campaign for Uhuru "NASA HAS NO AGENDA FOR KENYA" The President asked the people to get ready to vote in large numbers and use the ballot to make an emphatic expression of their will and reject those "scheming to create tension and discord". He tore into the Opposition saying its leaders wanted to cause instability after the nullification of his victory in the hope that a coalition government would be formed. "They wanted conflict so they can get a place in a nusu mkate government. We choose the ballot instead of conflict." NASA supporters took part in demonstrations in parts of the country on Friday as part of Raila's push for reforms before the repeat election. They wreaked havoc in Kisumu but there weren't reports of property destruction in Nairobi, Kakamega and Mombasa. Read: Police fire teargas as NASA supporters, Nairobi business community clash Also read: NASA demos: Kisumu crowd rips through Tumaini Supermarket  Jubilee Party supporters during President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto's tour of Meru county, October 6, 2017. /PSCU Uhuru reiterated that Raila and other Opposition leaders do not have an agenda for Kenya. But he noted his Jubilee administration gives opportunities to all in leadership, including youth and women. "We in Jubilee believe in the ability of our youth and women. The Opposition is composed of old men who want everything for themselves and do not want to give opportunities to the youth and women," he said in Maua. The President announced that some Meru residents, who lodged a case against the disbursement of funds for miraa farming, have decided to withdraw the suit so the funds will be released soon. Uhuru also said security along Meru-Isiolo border has been boosted with the deployment of 200 police officers. A hundred police reservists will be recruited. He further said Gikomba market, where a fire razed property from about 5am, will be rebuilt. More on this: Uhuru orders quick probe into Gikomba fire, says market will be rebuilt "WE'LL BEAT RAILA BY FOUR MILLION" Deputy President William Ruto said he is happy with the unity between Kiraitu and Munya and others who vied in last month's election. "We are happy all Meru leaders are united. Munya is here with Kiraitu....the President should get 100 per cent of the votes on October 26." Ruto said the choice for Kenyans is easy because Uhuru is a leader focused on development and progress, while his rival concentrates on "demonstrations and incitement" "When Uhuru is planning development, Raila is planning demonstrations. While Uhuru is preaching unity, Raila is preaching tribalism, deceit and con games. When Uhuru is going to ask Kenyans to vote for him, the other guy is busy scheming to subvert the will of Kenyans." The DP further said Kenya’s unity and stability is a priority for Jubilee and that this is one of the main reasons why they readily accepted the Supreme Court’s order for a fresh election. "We agreed to a fresh election because Uhuru is a peace-loving leader and because we trust God and Kenyans," he said. "We defeated Raila with 1.4 million votes but he said that was not enough. Now we want to defeat him with four million votes." Kiraitu assured he and Munya will continue working together as they solved their problems. Munya also said this and promised Uhuru the county's votes. Uhuru and Ruto also campaigned in Kangeta, Maili Tatu, Kianjai and Karama on their way to Meru town.  Elected leaders and former MPs spoke at the rallies.