Title: Mgodi Artist: Zahara Genre: Pop Release: October 13   Zahara’s musical talent remains unequalled. She is, perhaps, the greatest African vocalist of her generation. The 28-year-old singer, real name Bulelwa Mkutukana, is an artiste who instinctively knows how to work with the timbre of her remarkable voice. She might not be celebrated for her creative forces, but her voice definitely does it for her. In her five years of making music, she managed to imbue her music with wonder and brilliance. Back in the day, she gave us tracks like Ndiza and Loliwe and grabbed the world’s attention and even killed it on DJ Sbu’s party jam Lengoma. As her career advanced, her songwriting and delivery solidified into a kind of aesthetic discipline. Her latest release, Mgodi, is her most varied and compelling project yet. It is a 12-track album that exhibits Zahara’s growth in her approach. She incorporates varied sound, picking from jazz and smooth acoustics as she delves into issues such as romance, self-belief and appreciation for the woman.   Zahara only allows three artistes to feature in her 50-minute-long project. She brings on Kirk Whalum, who offers his vocals on both Umfazi and Ina Mvula. She also features Sivuyile and the Mtukutana Sisters on Tribute and God in the Valley respectively. The album is a complication of engrossing tracks with essentials such as Umsebenzi Wam, Ndiveze, Mgodi, Win or Lose and Love Is in the Air. If you are not a fan of the multi-award-winning songstress, you need to reevaluate and reconsider your choices. According to reports, it only took Mgodi six hours to be certified gold and 24 hours to be certified platinum after it drooped — an achievement she definitely thanks her committed fans for. Zahara does not believe in resting on her laurels, and that way, she continues to release spectacular music. You don’t need to understand her lyricism every time she opts to sing in her native language. She thrives in her delivery and highlights and, yet again, makes the best of her latest release.    Star Rating: 3/5