The notion that women have just recently discovered their potential is misplaced. The latter-day push by women for higher stakes in development does not mean they have not been a crucial fulcrum in influencing the destiny of humanity through the ages. Women leaders are not a new phenomenon. In Europe we had former UK Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and currently German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who recently won an unprecedented fourth term in office. Kenya has produced international icons such as Nobel laureate Wangari Maathai, while to the West we have outgoing Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf. In the early years of post-Independence Kenya, we had influential pioneer women MPs such as Grace Ogot. Later we had Cabinet minister Nyiva Mwendwa. Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu was the first woman to run for president – in the 1997 General Election. From the nation’s early years, women have held major responsibilities in the public and private sectors. And, although their exploits have been largely unsung, their legacy is becoming apparent as the country seeks equality in national development. The sheer courage and determination with which women have pursued their goals is a big win in the psychological war to shatter the glass ceiling. Apart from political leadership, women are influential in many levels. They run their homes efficiently, oftentimes single-handedly. This might look like a small feat on the surface until, as a man, you put yourselves in their shoes just for a day! The level of multi-tasking that accompanies this role on a daily basis is simply overwhelming. Women also play nondescript community leadership roles, without which communities would become dysfunctional. To move the women’s agenda to the next level, we need to generate structured campaigns that bring out the best in our women, by showcasing their contributions to various fields. I am thinking along the lines of the South African ‘Mosadi wa Konokono’ campaign. According to its citation, the campaign was conceived as a platform to acknowledge the remarkable contributions that women of substance make in their communities. Basically, the campaign seeks to identify, recognise and reward the unappreciated heroines in communities, those women who quietly but resolutely go about their work of developing their communities. Does it sound familiar in Kenya? When not immersed in reporting the political shenanigans of the day, our media sometimes covers the activities of such women. Women at the so-called grassroots level who do the necessary not for pay, but from a sheer sense of responsibility and compassion. Locally, we may need to revisit some traditional rites of passage that trained women on leadership. For instance, the Kamba had ‘Syokitundumu’, which taught women how to get in touch with the power of their femininity. It is not a wonder, therefore, that Kamba women have been trailblazers, particularly in the political arena. I believe this can be attributed to the early years when they were taught to be confident in themselves. These roles are impossible to quantify in monetary terms, but their social outcomes are priceless. They are the cogs and levers that hold society together, a role that only women can perform successfully. Unfortunately, it is a thankless job, a narrative that urgently needs to change by ceding more power to women. Ultimately, the strength of a woman cannot be gainsaid. Women may not shout about their achievements from the rooftops like men are wont to, but their role and impact are so pervasive and fundamental that, without them, there would be no functioning society to build. It is in this light that we need to pull down all barriers that hinder women from taking the full reins of leadership. We cannot have our cake and eat it. Men must let go of the social shackles that put limits on what women can, or cannot do.  Many of us grew up seeing our mothers breaking their backs so we could get a decent life in the future. There is no better proof that women have what it takes to transform society. Now, imagine if women were given a chance to invest the same zeal in shaping the country.   Nairobi senator 