Kenya Defence Force, KDF has intensified the manhunt for a group of al –Shabaab militants dispatched from Somalia to wage more attacks targeting civilian and security agents in Lamu County. Military sources indicates that the group crossed over to the country through the Vast Boni forest to stage more attacks in the counties of Lamu and Garrisa near the Kenya Somalia border. KDF spokesman Colonel David Obonyo said they are trailing a militant group that is heavily armed and split in atleast three groups to carryout attacks in several parts of Lamu. “Our troops are trailing the suspects as part of operation Linda Boni, intelligence reports indicates that militants have split in atleast three groups to carryout attacks," said Obonyo. KDF is leading the latest onslaught against the group blamed for a series of sporadic attacks in Coast and Northern Kenya. He said the group has no operation center making it difficult for security agents to effectively flush out them out from the forest. Obonyo said more military personnel with armoured personnel carrier (APC) have launched both aerial and ground operation targeting the militants. On Monday, KDF killed five members and recovered AK 47 riffles with 321 bullets, three grenades and several explosive devices. They laid ambush in Bodhei area of the forest where the five were killed. The group is believed to behind Tuesday’s ambush where, more than 10 administration police officers escaped death after their vehicle was sprayed with bullets after it missed running over an Improvised Explosive Device-IED. The IED had been planted in their way at Mambore-Mkokoni area,Lamu East. The officers were on normal patrol when the incident happened at around 6.30pm near the Kiunga Kengen Power Station along the Kiunga-Mkokoni road in Lamu East. Last month, a group of more than 30 heavily armed al shabaab militants descended on Silini, Mashambani and Bobo villages of Lamu West and beheaded four men. The terror group has been carrying out sporadic attacks in several parts of the country following Kenya's contribution of soldiers to AMISOM.