Broke City Hall on Wednesday wrote to the National Treasury asking for the release of Sh3.3 billion for September and October salaries. The county also requested the treasury to loan it Sh800 million to clear an overdraft it took from a commercial bank. Acting county secretary Leboo Morintat asked Treasury CS Henry Rotich to release Sh1.2 billion being equitable share for September. The letter was also signed by acting head of county treasury Stephen Mutua and acting chief finance officer Ekaya Alumasi. The county also requested the Treasury to disburse an advance of October equitable share of Sh1.29 billion to pay the workers their October salaries. "Additionally, the county requests for a further credit facility of Sh800 million offset the current expensive interest cost on overdraft facility at Cooperative Bank of Kenya." The over 13,000 county employees have threatened to down tools over the pay delay. The county's wage bill stands at Sh1.2 billion per month. In a statement to the newsrooms, Governor Mike Sonko termed the delays in paying the workers as regrettable and blamed the county treasury for the problem. "It is unfortunate that the delay has been occasioned by sabotage in the Finance Department led by the outgoing Finance CEC." "He has deliberately refused to make a formal request to the Controller of Budget to release funds on time," Sonko said. The governor, however, said that he had already met CoB chair Agnes Odhiambo who agreed to authorize the disbursement of the funds. "It is, therefore, my sincere hope that the county staff will bear with us during this difficult period as we await approval from the Controller of Budget." "Efforts are being made to ensure such delays do not re-occur in the future," he said. On Tuesday, two workers' union officials were arrested by EACC detectives for allegedly soliciting a bribe from Sonko's aide to avert industrial action. But the Kenya County Government Workers union secretary general Roba Duba dismissed the claims and accused the governor of intimidating union officials. Read: City Hall staff meet with Sonko, to be paid overdue salaries today Also read: Nairobi tops counties that spend most on salaries