President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA's Raila Odinga should dialogue for the peace of the country, a cross-section of Migori religious leaders have said. The clergy asked the two leaders to put the interest of the country first. Led by Bishop John Okinda, the secretary general of Pefa Church and chairman of Pastors One Accord, an organisation bringing together churches in the county, the leaders said tension is too high ahead of next week's polls. “As the church, we are shocked. Bullets from police and stones from demonstrators are being thrown around before elections, we may see worse after elections,” Okinda said.  They also asked the electoral agency to put its house in order to instil confidence among Kenyans. Okinda said the resignation of Roselyn Akombe and remarks by IEBC chairman hours after showed that there is a serious crisis within the commission. “We pray for the two antagonists to sit down and talk on how to ensure there is peace in the country, as currently the nation is deeply divided,” he said. He called on Kenyans to maintain peace as the country prepares for an election. Also read: Jubilee affiliated poll losers tell Uhuru and Raila to consider dialogue Several politicians from Mt Kenya region have asked the two leaders to hold talks to end tension before the October 26 votes. The politicians, who lost races in the August 8 general election, are part of the Mt Kenya caucus. They said on Sunday that dialogue will address the escalating legislative, judicial and public protests surrounding IEBC's handling of the fresh presidential election. "The worsening political tensions and the intransigence of IEBC and a section of the leadership is creating an atmosphere of fear and despondency," former Mukurweini MP Kabando wa Kabando said as indicated in their statement. He added at a Nairobi hotel: "This can be solved through direct engagement between [Uhuru and Raila] as competition isn't enmity."  Read: Dialogue to end rising tension before election, Uhuru and Raila told        