T ucked away atop the Oloololo escarpment in the former Transmara constituency, which is now under Narok county, sits a tented camp surrounded by the savannah, Mara West Camp. This camp has a combination of living in the wild while integrating with the Maasai community. It also offers simple and luxurious accommodation overlooking the Mara conservancy.  The journey to this camp took about five hours by road. I love travelling by road because it gives me the opportunity to see the beautiful sceneries through the window, while driving along the Maimahiu escarpment and visiting the the oldest church that was built by Italians in 1942.  You need about two hours from Nairobi to Narok. However, from Narok to the camp, this is where the real journey begins. It will take you about three hours to the camp. The road is not tarmacked but that should not worry you because along the way, you will get to see amazing animals, such as topis, impalas, gazelles and, of course, the beautifully stripped zebras. At some point, I asked the driver to stop the car as I watched the animals feed on the grass undisturbed. One also gets to see uniquely made fences by the Maasai community. The bases of the fences are stones that occupy three-quarters of the fences. These are aimed at preventing elephants from destroying any properties.   SUNRISE SURPRISE When I arrived at the camp, I almost cried when I saw giraffes, busy grazing just next to the sign post. Being one of my favourite animals together with dolphins, I could not help but stare at them, with their tall, shouting, rich brown colour clashing with the green environment.  As we drove into the camp, I was shocked to see that it was not fenced. Wild thoughts kept running through my mind, though not similar to Rihanna’s, but just the fact that I could wake up and see a wild animal next to me was something that I really wanted to see.  And it did happen. One morning, while waiting for the sun to rise at around 5.30am, I saw a herd of elephants walking down the cliff going to the park.  At first, I was scared, thinking they could harm me, but no! My Maasai warrior told me to just keep cool. It was the first time I was that close to elephants, bearing in mind I was not in a car, where I could drive off if anything happened.  So I took one big breath, crossed my legs, hoping that nothing would happen, and snapped away, watching the animals that are mostly abused by humans when taking selfies march one by one to the park.  This camp boasts of eight secluded chalets on the escarpment. It also has six safari tents and 20 bandas. These fully canvas tents provide a bedroom within nature that is both comfortable and private, yet almost like sleeping outdoors. Falling asleep to the music of chirping crickets and the distant cries of the tree hyraxes and awakening in the night to the sounds of grazing zebra and barking impala is part of the African safari experience long remembered and appreciated. The staff are so friendly you will not even feel like you are homesick. This camp is the perfect description of home away from home. Despite the camp being open, I could not let go of the opportunity to go for a game drive to see the big five. I mean, people fly in from different parts of the country for just two days for a game drive but aren’t lucky.  And since the Mara was voted Africa’s best national park, I had to be a proud Kenyan and take part in the hide-and-seek game with the animals. The Mara Triangle is 510km2, representing about a third of the entire reserve.   POLITICS HURTING INDUSTRY The game drive made me question why we are not doing much to market the Mara.  I talked with different staff and the guides, and they said the number of tourists visiting the Mara has declined, adding that they can count the number of domestic tourists that would visit the place. The political impasse, they said, has made matters worse.  As much as the government is trying hard to market the coastal region, since most tourists nowadays prefer going to Zanzibar yet we have the best beaches in East Africa, it would also be okay if we found better ways of selling the Mara and other parts of the country to offer a balance to the tourists visiting the country.  The Mara has so much to offer. Apart from getting an opportunity to see the big five, one can experience the Maasai culture and maybe even adopt their way of life.  