The police have accused NASA youths who took part in Thursday election protests of attempts to attack them and their facilities. George Kinoti, an assistant inspector general, said a police vehicle was damaged and its window shattered in Oyugis, Homa Bay. The police boss said an officer was stabbed in the town while another was hit with a stone on the mouth and lost a tooth. "One suspect was arrested and a kitchen knife recovered," Kinoti said. For the Kisumu case, the police boss said the boy who was shot in Kit Mikayi was in a group which had attempted to stop voting. He said a mob of about 3,000 persons stormed into Kit Mikayi tallying center and attempted to forcefully steal polling materials. In an effort to disperse them, one person was shot on the leg and unfortunately died of bleeding, Kinoti said in a statement. The protesters blocked roads and lit bonfires in opposition of the repeat election which was marred by low turnout. NASA leader Raila Odinga on Wednesday asked his supporters to stay at home on ground IEBC failed to listen to their concerns. Kinoti said the serious security incidences were reported in Kisumu, Homa Bay, Siaya and Mirgori counties.  In Kisumu, a university student passed on while being treated at Jaramogi Oginga Odinga teaching and referral hospital. He sustained a severe leg wound after he was shot during confrontations between the youth and the police.  Governor Anyang' Nyong'o said there are 99 victims of police brutality, mostly in Obunga, Manyatta, Kondele and Nyawita. "A total of 26 out of the 99 victims have gunshot wounds," the county boss said when he condemned the acts. He said: "The officers are out to execute innocent people opposing oppression, dictatorship and bad governance." The governor told county police commander John Kamau to order the officers to stop raiding residents in their houses. "We cannot accept police killings just because our people have refused to vote in the sham election," Nyong'o said. He declared a one week mourning period saying Kisumu people will not participate in elections on October 28. Nyong'o asked NASA leaders Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Wetangula to act on the police attacks. In Homa Bay, Kinoti said close to 2,000 people demanded to inspect a police vehicle that they suspected was carrying ballot boxes. "They attempted to force their way into a patrol base. One person was shot after the police used live bullets to defend the facility and themselves." Kinoti said that a comprehensive statement on the security status of the country will be released later on.   