A
nation’s destiny depends upon the people’s freedom to elect leaders who will
fulfill their aspirations and determine the direction their country will take.
That goal, which ushered in the dawn of democracy in 2002, now lies in tatters.
Like everything else Jubilee has touched.  That
is why we have seen in the last few days an outpouring of additional support
for NASA’s cause, which is built on creating peace and security rather than
tension, instability and human suffering that Jubilee’s lawlessness has plunged
the country into. Buoyed
by that support, NASA yesterday launched a national campaign of unprecedented
scope that will mobilize Kenyans to restore the cardinal values of democracy
and the rule of law. As was recognized in our 2010 Constitution, that goal can
be reached only through the powerful and protective institutions that have been
attacked and undermined throughout Jubilee’s rule. In
our new campaign of peaceful resistance to unlawfully constituted authority,
we will convene a People’s Assembly to guide the country to a fresh,
free and fair presidential election, as decreed by the Supreme Court. Our
resistance to unlawfully constituted authority will also include the powerful
economic weapon of boycotting goods and services produced by those who have
supported Uhuru’s lawless grab of the Presidency. We will conduct ourselves in
peace.  The
principles of peaceful and lawful struggle for change are more
pivotal than ever today, since people recognize that enormous damage is
wrought when a government is determined to hold on to power through means
fundamentally destructive of the Constitution. Even
while Uhuru Kenyatta was planning these crimes, he repeatedly demanded that
NASA comply with the Constitution; he accused us of trying to seize power
through the backdoor or violence; and he accused us of undermining independent
institutions.  Kenyans
have now seen that every single criminal intention he charged NASA with is
exactly what he himself and Jubilee have employed to hold on to power by
lawless and extra-constitutional means. And so we are witnessing the bizarre
sight today of a President about to be installed without an election.
   Every
time NASA encountered a roadblock, we sought remedies from the courts, while
those who hurled at us accusations of illegality were busy plotting the
destruction of both the courts and the IEBC.  NASA’s
commitment to the rule of law is ironclad.  