Jackson Kibor can now "live longer" as a court in Eldoret has dissolved his 51-year marriage to his second wife Josephine. Chief magistrate Charles Obulutsa ordered that their certificate be cancelled in the case filed by the 83-year-old politician cum businessman. Obulutsa annulled the marriage on grounds that it was proven the woman was cruel to Kibor and caused "irretrievable brokenness". "Kibor’s petition for divorce is granted and the respondent has 30 days to appeal," Obulutsa said on Friday. The polician had accused his wife of cruelty, desertion and interfering with his land at Kipkabus. The court agreed with him on all grounds except desertion, which his lawyers could not prove. "The behaviour of the respondent caused the petitioner mental torture and anguish. She was rude and disobedient to him and efforts to have them reconcile cannot work." More on case: Kibor 'fed up' with divorce case, accuses second wife of delay tactics Aslo read: Jackson Kibor, 86, weds new lover Yunita as he pushes to divorce 2nd wife Josephine  Veteran politican Joseph Kibor speaks outside court after his divorce was granted, October 6, 2017. /MATHEWS NDANYI Obulutsa said things had fallen apart in the marriage and that there was no option other than divorce. During the hearing, Josephine wailed and shouted at Kibor. The magistrate said the behaviour was proof that she could do the same to him at home. Kibor also proved they had not lived together for more than 14 years and that he had therefore been denied his conjugal rights. He expressed joy at the decision by the court saying: "At my age I can die very fast if I am disturbed. But now that the court has removed her from my life I think I will even live longer. Kibor said he will give Josephine 10 acres of land and build a house for her in appreciation of the five decades she lived with him. But he added: "She will not live on that land I will give her as my neigbhour and in case of death, we do not need to recognise each other in any way other than people who knew each other or as neighbours."