From Hollywood to Kenyan studios, cases of women creatives suffering under charming predators and the weight of sexual harassment is still high. If you have been following the story of Lupita Nyong'o and Angelina Jolie in Hollywood, then you will be surprised to learn that the same thing is going down here at the 254. Only that here, it is not being perpetuated by bilionaires or moguls but teenagers. They operate under the guise of "professional photographers". Guys, the young men ranging from 19 to 26 years old are setting up "makeshift studios" in their mothers' posh backyard garages or down town Nairobi. They then advertise their cheap services to younglings on the Gram. Yaani, Kenyan parents should really worry about these photographers, aka pornographers. They're the new age 'professional' mafisi chaps. Siku za maproducer harassing your little princess, who has a dream to do music, is over. Yaaani, O.V.E.R! There is a new predator in town. They are now known as sniper pornographers, who shoot for leisure and pleasure. And if the ladies cannot afford, they are given alternative ways of paying for the studio session. The first offer is for you to sleep with the photographer. And the second offer is to go on a "date" as an escort of an older man. The only reason these photographers cum pimps cum pornographers are able to have a steady supply of clients is because the girls are looking for fame. They all want to gain followers on social media like Vera Sidika, Corazon Kwamboka and Huddah, who were made famous by photographers such BuoArt. These girls also take risque photos for online use because they are chasing likes, infamy and traffic to their social media pages. In the process, they are not only taking photos but they are also being lured into drug addiction and weekend orgies.   These photographers also DM (direct message) any pretty girl they see on Instagram and offer photo sessions for free. If they are naive, the will accept the photographer's offer and before long, they have been recruited into the ring of prostitution and eventually dumped as soon as another crop of naive girls leave high school. I bumped into a 16-year-old, who was brought to a house party by a 19-year-old photographer. She was there as a date of an older gentleman with respectable standing in society. Parents need to police their daughters and not accept excuses such as, "I'm going for a sleep over at so and so's house".  Those are lies. They end up at these house parties, where they get drunk and, worse case scenario, are taken advantage of. Then these kids are too shy or worried to go tell anyone that they were taken advantage of. They'd rather confide in their bestie of the same age, who will give them superior pupu advice. This cycle is then perpetuated by older girls, who keep recruiting their peers with promises of money, fame and adventure.   