Nyama Mama Restaurant is
giving an exotic twist to African dishes, served in a trendy, partly open-air restaurant.
 Originally
started as Nyama Mama Express outlets in Yaya Centre and Village Market, the third
restaurant at Delta Tower in Westlands is a full-service eatery open from
breakfast to dinner. Cushions of kitenge
fabric, bright orange light fixtures and tomato red salt shakers add vibrancy
to the stone and wood décor.  Kenyan cooking draws a lot
from Asian cuisine. The Chicken 65, an appetiser of small, fried, chicken bits in
thick tomato sauce, is a popular item. If you’re a fan of beets, the Beetroot,
orange and Feta cheese salad is recommended. Other unique salad options are the
sukuma wiki with apples and red cabbage or the watermelon and avocado salad. From
the main courses, the crispy Tusker Pork Belly is well-liked, although not so
crispy after being slathered with a tasty barbeque sauce. The curry goat was my
favourite. I had it with rice and some Char-grilled githeri with avocado and
kachumbari. The Grilled Rabbit is well paired with spicy Tree Tomato Chutney, but beware of bits of bone. You have a choice of over 10 side dishes, such as
ugali fritters, chapati, Swahili biriyani and fried plantains at an extra
price. But the choice of sauces are not charged.  If
you’re hungry for nyama choma, try a
platter such as mbuzi choma or the Mama’s choma of pork, chicken, mutura and goat. There is the option of
casual meals like hamburgers, wraps and sandwiches.  The cocktail drinks,
serviced in unique copper cups or small glass bottles, are something to write
home about. For a sweet-salty mix, try the Pith Helmet of Johnny Walker Black
with ginger liqueur, honey and coconut water. My choice was the Charcoal Pit
cocktail of Hennessey VS, Martini Rosso, silver needle tea and chai bitters,
infused for a month. On Fridays or Saturdays, Nyama Mama’s Late Night
Menu is available from 11pm – 4am, with interesting items, such as Hangover Soup
and Chipsii Mayai. Location: Delta Tower, Westlands, Nairobi Access: Entry from Waiyaki Way Contacts: +254 20 7602067/8, +254
704 567567
Star rating:
4/5