Barclays Bank of Kenya over the weekend launched a new local tour planned to shore up the preparations of local professionals towards the elusive Kenya Open Golf title.  The new 8-leg tour dubbed ‘The Road to Kenya Open 2018’ was launched in Eldoret over the weekend, where club chairman Andrew Chelogoi shot a total of 45 stableford points to emerge the winner.  Yusuf Omari, the Barclays finance director, said the new series will involve local professional golfers and will have two events in Nairobi with the rest of the Tour events going to Thika, Machakos, Mombasa, Kisumu and Nakuru. “The Barclays Kenya Open golf Tour is an investment of Sh15 million. Each event will enjoy a facilitation of Sh2 million which will factor in the local pros. We have a standing sponsorship of the Kenya Open split between last year, this year and next year. We have also increased the prize fund of the Kenya Open from 220,000 Euros to 600,000 Euros (Sh73 million) and we are looking out to include other sponsors to achieve the goal of raising the money. The investment is part of 50th anniversary celebrations of Kenya Open to be marked next year,” said Omari. Barclays Kenya Open tournament director, Patrick Obath said the increase in next year’s prize money means Kenya Open will now be on top of the Challenge Tour and only a few steps to the main European Tour.  The Kenya Open has been on the European-based Challenge Tour schedule since 1991 with the exception of the 1994 event. It was founded in 1967 and has been held at Muthaiga Golf Club near Nairobi every year except 1968, 2004–08, and 2013–16, when the tournament was held at Karen Country Club.  The Kenya Open title has been won by some of Europe’s Ryder Cup golfers, including Seve Ballesteros, Ian Woosnam, Ken Brown and Christy O’Connor Jnr, as well as future Masters champion Trevor Immelman. The most successful player is England is Maurice Bembridge, who recorded three victories between 1968 and 1979. “We decided to take up President Uhuru Kenyatta’s challenge during this year’s open in March to increase the prize fund to a million dollars,” Obath said at Eldoret Golf Club on Saturday. Obath added that they have approached various stakeholders including the Ministry of Sports and Ministry of Tourism and several corporate organisations in their bid to achieve their financial obligations. Obath said the inclusion of pros on the Tour will act as a build up towards the open and pre-qualifying for the Open. “Each event will have a prize fund of Sh1 million shillings and will run in collaboration with the Barclays series,” added Obath. The Barclays series will feature eight tournaments with the next to feature the pros. In the Eldoret event, Chelogoi attributed his good form to focus and determination from the first to the last hole. “The essence was to keep the ball on the fairways and putt effectively well on the greens, “ he said.