The first sign of
trouble was the rate at which donkeys disappeared. Then there were reports
carcasses had been found. By the time a donkey owner knows their animal is
missing, it has already been slaughtered to feed a market that considers it a
delicacy. Even though donkey
meat is “only for export”, there are reports that some may have illegally been
diverted to local butcheries. As such, donkey meat
remains a major cause of controversy in the country. During the Africa
Animal Welfare Conference organised by Africa Network for Animals between
October 2 and 3, the sticky issue surrounding donkey meat was discussed. Animals experts raised
concerns that the rising demand for donkey meat, coupled with the emerging
trade on its skin in China, could wipe out the donkey population in Kenya. The conference, held
at the UN complex in Gigiri, sought to explore the nexus between animal
welfare, environment and development. Donkey Sanctuary head
of programmes Alex Mayers warned that livelihoods will be hurt by the demand
for donkeys. “Communities have a
heavy reliance on donkeys as working animals. Unfortunately, the issues are
compounded by global reliance, particularly in emerging markets,” he said. Mayers said the donkey
has been used as a delicacy, but its skin is now an emerging trade.  In Kenya, two donkey
abattoirs are in operation: Goldox Kenya Ltd in Mogotio, Baringo county, which
processes about 600 donkeys a day, and Star Brilliant abattoir in Kinamba, Naivasha
county.  Licensing of donkey
slaughterhouses has remained divisive as a result of local taboos associated
with the consumption of donkey meat. Meat Control
(amendment) Act 2012 documented donkey alongside horse as a food animal in
Kenya.   VANISHING ACTS Cases of donkeys
getting lost have become rampant, especially in Naivasha. Mayers urged the
government to close the donkey abattoirs, saying donkey numbers in the country
are not sustainable. From a census in 1999,
there are approximately 1,832,519 donkeys in Kenya, with over half of this
population being used for work in transport and tillage operations. About a third of the
donkeys are in poor condition due to human abuse and misuse, which emanate from
strong myths, inhumane traditional practices and malnutrition. Mayers, who spoke
during a presentation by the Africa Network for Animal Welfare, said out of the
44 million donkeys worldwide, about 1.8 million donkey skins are being traded
every year. In China, donkey skin
is used to produce traditional Chinese medicine called Ejiao or Donkey hide
skin. Mayers said the medicine, which also contains roots, has been promoted as
a product worthy of emperors. Chinese claim the
Ejiao has wide-ranging heath benefits, including anti-aging properties, an
increase in libido and reduction of reproductive organ diseases in women. This, Mayers said, will decimate the donkey population. Experts on animal
welfare said police are not interested in pursuing stolen donkeys, which in
most cases get slaughtered and passed onto unsuspecting customers. Brooke East Africa
advocacy officer Samuel Theuri said “it has been difficult to link theft and
slaughter of donkeys in the country”. Theuri said a donkey
remains a valuable asset providing multiple functions to a household. “Evidence shows that
strong demand for donkey products (skin and meat) is driving theft and illegal
killing of donkeys to unsustainable levels, and that most donkey populations in
Africa are already in decline or soon will be so, some of them dramatically,” he
said. Theuri said communities
themselves remain the best line of defence in protecting donkeys from theft. He
said donkey theft and illegal killings are crimes depriving and impoverishing
community livelihoods. Means to deter the
trend, he said, include owner protection, conservation of donkey populations
and adequate implementation of animal rights laws.   FACTORY FARMING Also discussed during
the conference was welfare of other domestic animals, such as chicken, cows, dogs,
pigs and turkeys. PS Andrew Tuimur agreed
with animal welfare experts that it is wrong to mistreat animals by
disregarding their welfare. He blamed the trend on
the growing human population and advancements in technology, industry, economy
and infrastructure that have forced people to adopt intensive farming known as
factory farming. Factory farms hold
large numbers of animals, typically chicken, cows, pigs or turkeys, often
indoors, typically at high densities. The animals are raised for food. Animal experts believe
efficiency has trumped animal welfare. In the US, for
instance, over 99 per cent of farm animals are raised in factory farms, a
booming business that focuses on profit and efficiency while disregarding
animal welfare. Animal welfare experts say this is wrong. Experts say factory
farming produces large qualities of meat, eggs and milk at the lowest cost,
which has a negative impact on animal welfare, people and environment. Tuimur said animals
form an integral part of our environment and if their welfare is ignored,
habitat and biodiversity will be affected. Livestock farming in
Kenya contributes to 12 per cent of GDP and 40 per cent of agriculture GDP. The sector employs
about 50 per cent of the national agriculture workforce and about 90 per cent
of ASAL workforce. Ninety five per cent of ASAL households’ income comes from
the sector. “Nutrients recycling
that offers sustainable support to plants and animals lives has been greatly
interfered with through destruction of the natural environment by mankind,” he
said.   COSMETIC TESTS  The use of live
animals in the cosmetics industry also came up. Cosmetic manufacturers use them
to test their products. Dr Maina Ngotho, production
head of Mount Kenya University’s animal health department, said despite inadequate
information, he is not aware of such tests being conducted locally. “I must admit we still
do not know who does research using animals,” he said. Ngotho said the 2014
guidelines were only put in place to allow the National Commission for Science,
Technology and Innovation — the custodian of science and research — to bring on
board players. Cosmetic companies in
many parts of the world use animals to test their cosmetics. According to
Humane Society International, approximately 100,000 to 200,000 animals globally
suffer and die from cosmetic tests every year around the world. They include rabbits,
guinea pigs, hamsters, rats and mice. While dogs and monkeys are never used to
test cosmetics anywhere in the world, they are used to test other types of
chemicals. Typically, animal
tests for cosmetics include skin and eye irritation tests, where chemicals are
rubbed onto the shaved skin or dripped into the eyes of rabbits. This could be done for
weeks or months to look for signs of general illness or specific health
hazards, including cancer or birth defects, and even widely condemned “lethal
dose” tests, in which animals are forced to swallow massive amounts of a test
chemical to determine the dose that causes death. These tests can cause
considerable pain and distress, including blindness, swollen eyes, sore
bleeding skin, internal bleeding and organ damage, birth defects, convulsions
and death. Pain relief is not provided and at the end of a test the animals are
killed, normally by asphyxiation, neck-breaking or decapitation. Ngotho said there
should be ethics applied to the way animals are handled. Kenya Veterinary Board
chair man Mwenda Mbaka noted that there has been an improvement in how Kenyans
handle animals.