Many residents of Murang’a county yesterday braved a downpour to vote from as early as 6am. Voting was smooth, steady and low key in the Jubilee stronghold. This contrasted with the August 8 election eve when some residents drove around the county honking their car horns to wake up people to vote. On Wednesday night only a few groups of people lit fires in Murang’a town as they waited for polling stations to open. At first there were short queues, but people kept trickling in to vote for President Uhuru Kenyatta. At Murang’a town social hall polling station, voters had already queued by 5am. Residents who turned up said they were confident that more people would come out to vote as the weather cleared. Murang’a is a Jubilee stronghold. Governor Mwangi Wairia urged voters to come out to cast ballots in the morning so it would be possible to establish those who had not yet voted and why. In a text message to residents, Wairia said he will use choppers to mobilise them to come out to vote. “If you see a chopper and you have not voted, know that it is a reminder for you to exercise your constitutional right,” reads the SMS.  Wairia said the choppers will be part of the Tujuane kwa Kituo drive he launched last month to ensure all registered voters cast ballots.  The campaign aimed to ensure all voters in individual polling stations knew each other personally to establish those who didn’t turn up to vote and why. And then they would be tracked down. At least 76,000 registered voters did not cast ballots on August 8.  Meanwhile in Kiambu voting started at 6am as per the IEBC regulations. There was, however, a low voter turnout in the morning due to heavy rains. But by midday the weather had cleared and residents came out of their houses in large numbers, voted and went on with their usual activities. Markets were opened, and there were no police officers patrolling major towns and shopping centres.  Uhuru, First Lady Margaret and Mama Ngina Kenyatta cast ballots shortly after 11am at Mutomo Primary School polling centre in Gatundu South. Uhuru said every Kenyan has the right to vote or not vote, but none supersedes the other.    