The office of the AG has 16 days to respond to a request by a parent to temporarily stop the implementation of the new education system. The AG will have to file his response to Eric Mugambi's prayer of hauling the new curriculum. Mugambi is seeking orders from the High court restraining Kenya institute of curriculum development and the ministry of education from introducing the system of 2-6-3-3. Judge Erick Ogola said he cannot issue any orders until when the AG's office give their response in connection with the matter. "I therefore order the AG file the response before I decide whether to issue conservatory orders or not,"said Ogola.  If the High Court issues the injunction orders, the ministry of education will suffer a setback especially now as they focus in implementing the new system which is currently on trial in few schools and was to officially kickstart in January, 2018. Mugambi, wants the court to order KICD to table the intended implementation schedule to show what they have so far done. He said the planning should also show the level of student exit and progression in their career path ways. Mugambi is also seeking for the court to force the ministry of education to form a national committee which will oversee the implementation of the new syllabus. Mugambi, a teacher with 20 years of experience said that the ministry of education and KICD ought to have consulted various education stakeholders before they came up with the plan. He said if the the system is implemented, it will cause confusion among the students, teachers and the entire education system. He pointed out a pending crisis in 2020 and 2021 where two different cohorts of classes, grade six of the new system and standard 8, will be joining secondary school. Mugambi further noted that course content of primary to increase from five subjects to 10 subjects therefore increasing learning time of the students. He said it was unfair and discriminative to students since different students will have different number of subjects to determine their final grade. He also noted the system ought to have ensured that all subjects have equal weight to ensure that students wanting to join university do not have to undergo pre-university programme in order to meet minimum entry requirement. Mugambi also said the system developers erred in wanting to introduce indigenous and foreign languages at different levels. He said if such languages are introduced at an early level, it will negatively affect the student's ability to communicate in Swahili and English. The matter will be heard on October 16