Premiums for political risk cover shot up in the three months to August as Kenyans sought to secure their property ahead of the elections, the Association of Insurance Brokers of Kenya says. “About three months to elections, there were a lot of enquiries which translate into business regarding political risk to cover domestic houses and commercial buildings,” AIBK chairman Nelson Omolo said. “We see the growth in premiums accrued from political cover maintaining for another couple of weeks.” He said that although premiums reduced after the actual election date, uptake of insurance against political violence has been on the rise given the current political situation where President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition leader Raila Odinga are set for a re-run. The on-going protests led by the opposition against the electoral commission have also played a key role in the increased uptake of political risk cover. Brokers said the most insured classes under the poll risk cover were commercial properties, domestic households and private motor vehicles.  “We are seeing that with a prolonged uncertainty in politics, many people are coming up to take the cover against political violence,” Omolo said. For instance, Omolo said that Amaco Insurance, one of the group’s members, collected premiums of Sh10 million in the three months to the elections. The association has about 200 members.  “Violence may continue depending on how we resolve our political issues, so if this continues people will continue taking up insurance particularly for their motor vehicles,” he said. Following the 2007/2008 post election violence, African Trade Insurance Agency offered technical support in setting up a financial pool to ease local underwriters’ burden of covering political risk. The plan involved 20 local insurance firms. “We have supported the local insurance industry to increase capacity so that they can now cater for damage to property and motor vehicles from political violence. We support the industry through a treaty but again, this is a very small portion of our business,” ATI chief executive George Otieno told the Star. He added that with regards to the current political situation, ATI’s business remained unchanged with the political violence, terrorism and sabotage representing less than five per cent of overall business as it did in 2013. “This means that the investors we support have a long term view that goes beyond an election cycle,” Otieno said.