The 2010 Constitution provides for cooperation and consultation between the national and county governments. But how would the two levels best relate in service to the citizens? How are the power struggles to be addressed so as not to inhibit service delivery and realisation of devolution dividends? For devolution benefits and sustainable development to reach all corners of the country, smooth intergovernmental relations is the answer. The Constitution states that the national and county levels are distinct and interdependent and shall conduct their mutual relations on the basis of consultation and cooperation. The Constitution's architects devoted a whole chapter ( 11 ) to devolution and how the county governments should work in the new dispensation. Intergovernmental relations are to help deepen democratic space and constitutionalism. Adherence, respect and conduct of public affairs entrenched in the rule of law lead to growth of a constitutional culture. It is through intergovernmental relations framework that the national government transferred 14 functions as detailed in Part II of the Second Schedule of the Constitution to the counties. County treasuries were established; the county public service was set up as well as functional county assemblies that make relevant laws that support county governments in service delivery. The structures founded under the Intergovernmental Act have further enhanced relations for better operations within the two levels of government. The Council of Governors meets annually, bringing together all the 47 chiefs to deliberate on services. The CoG has been a very powerful forum that the governors have used in engaging with the national government. The energies, focus and teamwork in defence of devolution was witnessed under the first chairperson, Isaac Rutto, former Bomet governor. This spirit was taken up and a common thread established by subsequent chairpersons, Peter Munya of Meru and Josephat Nanok of Turkana. There is also the Intergovernmental Budget Council chaired by the Deputy President with membership of all the governors and Finance County Executive Committee members. The county governments may also establish joint committees among themselves as has been seen in the Joint Economic Forum of all coastal counties, the establishment of an economic bloc by North Rift counties and the economic and social bloc established by the lake basin counties. These are entities of further collaborations, information-sharing and synergy that culminate in improved regional economies and general economic development. The Summit is chaired by the President whenever he meets with the governors. It is in the Summit that any rough edges or sticking matters between the national and county governments are addressed for improved services and investment environment. A seven-member Technical Committee on Intergovernmental Relations serves as the secretariat of the Summit and effects the resolutions. This bridges the gap between the national and county governments in policy implementation. The committee is currently headed by former Local Authorities PS Karega Mutahi. Several areas continue being a headache to both levels of government. It is perhaps in the never-ending strikes by the health workers that intergovernmental relations got its first test. Health, being a devolved function, has presented a major challenge that continues to blot the otherwise good performance in service delivery under devolved governments. Another area of contention remains the allocated resources and their prudent utilisation by the county governments. The governors accuse the national government of treating them with a big brother attitude instead of understanding the unique environment they operate in. Categorisation of roads between national and county roads is blurred with resultant blame games whenever county residents put governors to task over poor infrastructure. Assets division, despite being very key in accountability and transparency, and as a safeguard to public investments, has not been actualised in seven years. Exploitation, management, use and compensation of natural resources are a sore thumb that need to be addressed urgently for devolution to work. So too does proceeds from tourism, water and forests. Since the country is unveiling discoveries of oil, natural gas, precious minerals, rare earth, marine wealth to name but a few, resource-sharing formulas will make or break intergovernmental relations. This even as politics, unfair competition and manipulation are chalked to keep Wanjiku from enjoying these resources. Only smooth, focused and unbiased intergovernmental relations will help us navigate these uncharted waters. Devolution and governance expert burugujn@gmail.com 