It must be remembered that the purpose of education is not to fill the minds of students with facts … it is to help them to think, if that is possible, and always to think for themselves. — Robert Hutchins A basic feature of the Curriculum Reform spearheaded by the ministry of Education is that the dominance of examinations will be scaled down. Emphasis on educational outcomes — the knowledge, skills, attitudes and values that learners need to be successful in work, family, and community — will, more than ever be the focus of policymakers going forward. The frequency of exams — both internal and external—will be scaled down to allow an educational environment that nurtures and develops the abilities, talents and interests of every learner. The Report of the Special Investigation Team on School Unrest in 2016 cited congested routines in some secondary schools as one of the factors that triggered student unrest during second term of the 2016 calendar year. “The programmes for the whole term were also composed of too many examinations baptised as Opener, Random Assessment Test, End term, Supplementary, Joint Mocks, etc,” states the report. It was officially handed over to the Cabinet Secretary for Education, Dr Fred Matiang’i, by a member of the team, Dr Grace Mullei. By the time most students are released for half term, they have sat midterm Continuous Assessment Tests. What purpose, if any, is served by an exam immediately after half term serve? One of the basic functions of education is to teach students to think — about basic issues that mankind grapples with and think about these issues critically and analytically. It is not about filling or stuffing their minds with facts, important though they might be, in providing the raw material for thinking. The concern of every teacher and every school is not how much children can remember in an exam, but how well they can think. And thinking is a product of thorough teaching and learning. That is what great educationists and great education systems focus on. And by all accounts, our basic education system — in its policy architecture, standards, curricula and examinations — is great. All that we require is effective and stress-free delivery of the curriculum, and, Voila! you will see intelligence, talent and character sprouting, like flowers in a garden, in our schools. Our schools have the capacity to mould our students into thinkers. It will not be about how much a learner knows or can remember. Education is more than the command of the prescribed curriculum or content students study in formal schooling. The practical world wants an all-rounded person. It wants people who can, besides being able to read, learn and remember — reason and pay attention. They must have patterns of thought, feelings and behaviours that contribute meaningfully to society. The open world provides a laboratory to help sharpen these skills. That is why school holidays in April, August and December will be seen as part of the curriculum and not a disruption. Holiday breaks to learning, unencumbered by threats of an examination upon reporting to school, provide a perfect “open classroom and laboratory” to continue learning and applying the skills students are being taught in school. It is not simply things we stuff into our minds that make up an education. Rather it is those facts and knowledge, well understood and integrated in our minds, character and personality, that make the difference — the great difference — between a thinking and a submissive mind. That is what defines the ideals of our education system. That is the cumulative objective of our national educational goals: To enable learners to “always to think for themselves”.