The county is set to hire 800 inspectorate officers and 200 fire fighters to replace aging staff and rejuvenate the security and disaster management sectors. Eligible candidates must be young and energetic, acting County Secretary Morintat Leboo said. Leboo has already written to the county public service board to make the recruitment. In a letter dated October 11, Leboo said the county is unable to effectively carry out its mandate due to shortage of staff. He attributed the shortage to retirement, deaths and dismissals. “An analysis of the sector staff indicates that the last recruitment was done in 1999. Over the years, the sector has experienced natural attrition due to deaths and retirements,” Leboo said. Leboo said that the security department has only 2,227 employees with about 1026 of them aged 50 and above. “This scenario creates a challenge since this is a sector that requires a younger and vibrant workforce in order to cope with rigours of offering services to residents," he said. Security, Compliance and Disaster Management chief officer Francis Munyambu said a memo that 195 city askaris have retired over the last five years, 87 others died and 10 were dismissed. "We expect another 418 officers to retire in the next five years," Munyambu said while recommending the recruitment of the 800 new askaris. Head of fire department Brian Kisali said he has a shortage of 148 employees.  Shortage of the enforcement officers has been blamed for the lawlessness and disorder in the city, especially in the Central Business District. Last year, then Deputy Governor Jonathan Mueke said the 1,450 inspectorate officers are watchmen guarding schools, hospitals and other county facilities. This leaves the county with only 850officers for enforcement. “Our officers report to work at 8amand leave at 5pm. This leaves hawkers,street families and those illegally dumping garbage the entire night to do their ugly things,” Mueke had said In June, the county called off the planned hiring of 500 askaris and 100 fire firefighters after brokers and cartels allegedly infiltrated the exercise. The county said that the exercise was meant for qualified young men and women, but the brokers brought their family members and friends, thus rendering the entire process a "discriminative affair". Last week, Governor Mike Sonko announced that he county would also soon hire 1,000 traffic marshals to control traffic and help decongest CDD.