After clinching the 2017 SportPesa Premier League title, Gor Mahia seem set for the CAF Champions League following successful contract extension negotiations with several senior players who played pivotal roles in securing a record 16th crown. With top officials in the club pushing for the current squad to remain together, the renewal of contracts by the club’s skipper Musa Mohammed, his fellow centre half Harun Shakava, utility Godfrey Walusimbi, defensive midfielder Ernest Wendo and talisman Jacques Tuyisenge is seen as an early measure to challenge for continental honors. Mohammed, the clubs’ longest-serving player inked a two-year long contract extension alongside Shakava, Tuyisenge and Walusimbi while Wendo extended his stay for the next three years. The club also confirmed contract negotiations with winger George ‘Blackberry’ Odhiambo, who publicly admitted three clubs had approached him for his services. Club deputy secretary General Ronald Ngala said for the club to go far in the Champions League, the current squad should be maintained and a few quality additions made. “We want the current squad to stay together for long. The more they play together the more they become stronger and can combine well against any team. Mohammed, Walusimbi, Tuyisenge and Shakava signed two year deals while Wendo penned a three year deal. Negotitaions with Odhiambo will begin soon and hopefully he will be convinced to stay. At the end of the season the board will decide whether to bring in more signings. But meanwhile, we want to retain all our senior players.” The experience of the five players who extended their stay at K’ogallo will be a force for  Coach Dylan Kerr believes keeping the five will make the K’Ogalo a force to reckon with at the continental front. For Mohammed and Shakava their vast exposure with the national team at Africa Cup of Nations, SportPesa All Stars tours and Fifa international friendly duties will be highly depended on in the event next year. The experience of turning up for the Uganda Cranes and the Rwanda national teams will bring in the best out of Walusimbi and Tuyisenge.  