Deputy President William Ruto has asked NASA Raila Odinga to stop threatening Kenyans with violence. The DP said the opposition chose not to participate in the election on their own volition, therefore, other peace-loving Kenyans have nothing to do with it. Ruto said the Constitution is very clear on issues concerning elections. He said Kenyans who participated in October 26 election cannot be disenfranchised by one person’s quest for power. “Mr Odinga chose not to participate in the election. Kenyans had nothing to do with that decision. He should stop threatening peace in the country,” he said. The DP was speaking in an interview with journalists at his Karen office yesterday. Ruto said since Railaa had failed to marshal support in other parts of the country he had decided to export violence in other counties like Nairobi and Bungoma. “Since there was only one region where violence was being experienced the NASA leader has his agents are attempting to export the same mayhem to other regions,” said the DP. He said Government will protect life and property of Kenyans from the marauding NASA goons. “Those found breaking the law irrespective of their status in society will be punished,” he warned. Ruto said President Uhuru’s win was legitimate as the constitution states to be elected President you have to garner 50 per cent plus one of the votes cast plus 25 per cent in 24 counties of the forty seven. “We have already surpassed that threshold. That means that in terms of the constitution, the legitimacy question is already answered,” said Ruto. He said it was deceptive for Odinga to claim that 3.5 million voters turned out adding 7.5 million voters turned out “Of course he wants to peddle a narrative that suits his political narrative. There is a percentage of voters that was denied a chance to vote. I challenge our opponent to remove the organised militia blocking the delivery of voting material and we will know for sure if those affected want to vote or not.” Ruto said it was time the opposition familiarized itself with its position and let the majority of Kenyans engage with their daily lives The Deputy President said for almost a year the country had been stake on politics which had slowed down economic development He said after the August election the unwarranted riots had affected many business and investments. “Kenyans have witnessed very little business and investment since August 8th.We need lives of Kenyans to return to normalcy,” said the DP. He said the country cannot be in a state of perpetual politics. “This cycle must now come to an end.” 