Acting Interior CS Fred Matiang'i has lectured the Opposition, saying chaos will not be tolerated during the presidential election on Thursday. Speaking during a meeting with security heads on Monday, Matiang'i said they will resist any effort to bring disorder in Kenya. "Those who are attempting to subvert the constitution, they need to understand the penal code. We all want order and good order and those who do not want to live in an orderly way the law gives as powers to ensure they are orderly," he said. Matiang'i said the police are ready to provide security to enable the IEBC to conduct the election. "There is a difference between rioters and demonstrators. We are not foolish people. This is our country and we have the opportunity to ensure the country is governed in a right way," he said. He said politicians lacked respect for institutions adding that police counted more than 1,000 stones hurled at Kondele police station last week. On October 13, protesters allegedly stormed the police station and injured two officers. [VIDEO] Student buying ice cream shot dead in Kondele demonstration Also read: Cops teargas Nairobians, anger Kisumu with water cannon "I am concerned about culture to attack institutions, where individuals do not respect institutions. Those carrying stones, which part of the law allows you to hurl stones at a police station?" he said. "Let's be firm on this issue, we are all citizens of this country and we will not allow these kind of things to happen ... they don't have a right to destroy properties." Matiang'i said Kenya is at a place it has never been before, adding that "we have a responsibility to keep our country together". "We have a responsibility to keep our country together. You have many tools you can use in your possession. You have social groupings ... use all this to bring about peace and understanding," he said. "It is not fair ... it isn't fair ... you have a responsibility ... we will resist unorderliness." He said they are ready for the elections and urged the Police to be firm. "We are ready and I want to encourage you that we have your back. Be firm and ensure the law is followed. Adopt a straightforward attitude,"he said. Kenya is holding the re-run after the Supreme Court threw out the result of an August 8 election won by the incumbent Uhuru Kenyatta but disputed by the challenger Raila.  The Opposition leader has refused to participate in the re-run, arguing that reforms were needed first to prevent fraud. Raila has been leading demos in different arts of the country which has led to more than 30 deaths as reported by Amnesty International. The NASA chief has instructed their supporters to hold countrywide demonstrations to force top IEBC officials out of office and prevent electoral reforms.