Circuit leaders Kabras Sugar face Menengai Oilers, Nondies and Masinde Muliro University in a tricky Pool ‘A’ for the Dala Sevens slated for this weekend at the Mamboleo show ground in Kisumu. Charles Cadovillis charges will open their campaign against Masinde Muliro and then battle it out against Nondies before winding up their preliminary assignments against Oilers in their final pool game. Resolution Impala Saracens, looking for their first circuit overall crown in 13 years are in Pool ‘B’ with defending Dala Sevens champions and reigning national champions Homeboyz. Western Bulls and Resolution Kisii RFC round off the pool. Top Fry Nakuru headline Pool ‘C’ which also features KCB, Blak Blad and hosts Kisumu while Pool ‘D’ consists of Quins, Mwamba, Strathmore Leos and Division Two winners Makueni. Kabras lead the standings with 85 points and hold a five-point lead over Impala on 80 points with holders Homeboyz third on 78 points and Nakuru fourth on 73 points. In the second division category, Catholic University have been drawn in Pool ‘E’ where they face Siaya, Kericho and Kenya Ports Authority (Eldoret). In Pool F, Egerton face Mbale, Nakuru, Shieywe, Kiambu and KITI. KCAA Stormers are in Pool ‘G’ alongside Maseno, MKU String and Webuye RFC while Pool ‘H’ comprise Homa Bay, Jaramogi Oginga Odinga University, Daystar University and University of Egerton in Pool I. Bungoma square it out against Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology, Moi Univesity and Citam Kisumu. Fallen giants Mean Machine have a date with Sigalagala, Mumias and MKU Thika in Pool ‘J’. Meanwhile, Kisumu County Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o has assured rugby players, fans and stakeholders over security in the last leg of Dala 7s at the Mamboleo showground. In a letter send to Kenya Rugby Union chairman Richard Omwela, Nyong’o said: “The County Government and the people of Kisumu warmly welcome the teams and fans to our county and the city of Kisumu.” The letter comes at a time when it was feared that Dala 7s would be disrupted due to the demonstrations witnessed in different parts of the country and had hit Kisumu hard. Nyong’o said the county government will be committed to maintain a conducive environment in terms of security and facilities necessary for the sporting event and other social economic activities of the visiting teams and fans.