I n the middle of the semi-desert Samburu county rises the forested Mathews Mountain, also known as Ol Doinyo Lenkiyo in the local language. The mountain’s indigenous forest is believed to be a remnant of a tropical forest that once stretched from central Africa. The area is traditionally home to Samburu and Dorobo communities.  The six-tent Kitich Camp is inside the forest with a wooden deck that faces the Ngeng River. The camp has a rustic feel, with old-fashioned safari amenities such as hot water in bucket showers.  With no mobile network, this is truly the place to get away from modern conveniences and immerse in nature.  Guided walks through the cool forest are delightful. Two Samburu guides and an armed camp manager led us along a winding route. We spoke in low voices so as not to startle any animals and hear more of the forest sounds. Lots of elephant droppings and buffalo dung bore witness to the main residents of the forest. One time the guide pointed to the scat of a leopard, another elusive inhabitant. Occasionally the tree canopy would shiver as monkeys leaped from branch to branch. We passed many giant cycads, broad palm-like trees endemic to the Mathews and one of oldest plant species  in the world. We came up to the rock pools, which are small ponds along the course of clear mountain streams surrounded by reeds, trees and large boulders. The pools are ideal for a bush swim, if you are not put off by the freezing temperatures. An African fish eagle watched our antics with interest. Lunch was a relaxed picnic affair under the trees and it was hard to start again on the return trek to camp. After dinner, guests frequently gather to chat around the outdoor campfire under the stars, bats zooming overhead. Inside your warm beds, hear nocturnal birds calling and shuffling sounds of wildlife moving outside.  Enjoying drinks on the last afternoon at the camp, a family of elephants suddenly materialised out of the forest and spent about an hour browsing across the river. The perfect end to a perfect stay.    LOCATION: Samburu County ACCESS: 10-hour drive on the Thika Road/A2 highway, through Archers Post OR chartered flight from Wilson Airport to Namunyak Airstrip.  CONTACTS: Elewana Collection +254 730 127 000   Star Rating:     5/5