I was a member of the ODM Pentagon during the 2007-08 political crisis. I therefore watched the sad events from close quarters and got very involved in finding solutions to the crisis. As a country, we seem to have forgotten these events of only 10 years ago and we seem determined to repeat the same mistakes.  We have forgotten that we, the political leaders, created a situation that led to the deaths of many. We created many IDPs that are still living amongst us, to our disgrace, whom we have not resettled. We have forgotten that many became refugees in Uganda. Finally, we took ourselves to the ICC, where we embarrassed the country.  One of the reasons I ran for president this year was I could see a possible repeat of the 2007 campaign. I was hoping the country would see the danger I foresaw and choose an independent candidate. I'm grateful to the Kenyans who voted for me and put me in third position, which gives me the authority to comment on the current goings-on.  As one who actively participated in the Constitutional Review process at Bomas for nine months, I saw the dangers of our party politics that is based on the tribe, or on ownership and control by a few people. I have observed these dangers during my long involvement in politics. That is why during the campaign I was concerned by the term "two horses" as I knew the potential danger of that very personalised race the two were involved in. It was obvious to any observant person that we were headed for trouble. For the last one year, Jubilee and NASA have been acting like PNU and ODM did in 2007. The country then spoke about the composition of ECK commissioners; counting of votes; transmission of results; announcing results that were different from the signed Forms 16A. Literally, nothing has changed much, except names, dates, some actors, and numbering of forms.  Did we not, as a country, learn anything? It is very difficult to learn from such an experience in tribal-based politics. That is the reason many African countries have failed. We must redefine our democracy if we are to succeed and bring the term "inclusivity" to the fore. All Kenyans, and I mean all, must be made to feel that they belong. That must continue to be our challenge as leaders. One of the major lessons I learnt in 2007-08 was the need for the main actors to speak to each other directly as soon as possible. I am convinced that had President Kibaki and Raila Odinga started talking to each other directly at an early stage, we would have resolved the crisis quite early. As it is, we, their main supporters, took over the "talking process" and made it difficult for the two to speak to each other.  If I was in President Uhuru Kenyatta's or former Prime Minister Raila's shoes today, I would pick up the phone and speak directly to my opponent. After all, they are brothers who come from similar backgrounds and who know the dangers of what they are leading us into. Both of them have much at stake, just like all of us. History will judge them harshly if they are not careful. I fully appreciate that the supporters of each camp will be very unhappy, but would they rather we had chaos or peace? It is these tough decisions that a decisive leader must make during times such as these. We must support all ongoing efforts to get the two to meet and talk face-to-face. Anybody, and there are some, who blocks such moves cannot be a friend of our country. Any such people must be considered enemies of Kenya, because they surely must know where they are leading us—to chaos. Lesson number two was, if we do not resolve the problem internally, the world will eventually move in and take over the process. In this century when we have been so proud of being African, how embarrassing will this be. Kenya is too strategically important to be ignored by the rest of the world. If our leadership, both Jubilee and NASA, does not want to have conditions imposed by outsiders, then this is the time to quickly start coming up with Kenyan solutions. I have already seen external involvement in finding a solution to our current problem and this is bound to increase if we let the crisis fester. Lesson number three was our economy took a nosedive. This is already happening. I have spoken to hawkers and big businessmen and they all agree that our leaders must get a political solution as soon as possible. I would hate to be the Finance minister today, given this situation. Even if the repeat election takes place, we still have these pending issues and our constitutional crisis will not miraculously disappear. We have a major constitutional crisis facing us in a few weeks that must be addressed. Lesson number four was that once we, the political leadership, sat down and agreed on the way forward, it was then easier to get the necessary legal and constitutional changes that were needed. That is how we went to Parliament and new laws were passed, and ended our self-created problem. My question is, why are we refusing to learn from experience? All the voters today were around 10 years ago and saw what happened. We must not allow that to happen again. I support all Kenyans of goodwill, and they are many, who are now busy finding, lobbying and supporting efforts at finding a peaceful way forward. A Kenya that is not inclusive will be a difficult one to manage by either Jubilee or NASA. Let us learn from our recent history.Hon Joseph WN Nyagah, EGHPresidential candidate (2017)