Kenyans have once again had their voice expressed in two different ways; there were people who heeded the call by the IEBC to vote, and we wish to congratulate them for that. However, there was another category of voters who chose not to vote out of their own conscience. We have to congratulate them as well for standing firm on their principles.   The order by Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission chairman Wafula Chebukati is not acceptable whatsoever. It borders on subjecting the region to a further state of chaos and police brutality to a level that is not commensurate with the primary objective of the entire electoral process. For Chebukati to say that he has requested Boinnet for assistance to ensure voting takes place specifically in Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay and Migori, that is a license for a state massacre in these areas, because the only language Boinnet knows is that of guns and bullets. We bind this spirit of bloodshed in Jesus’ name. The people of Nyanza, just like their counterparts in other perceived opposition zones, have chosen their political direction in a clear and open manner that must be respected. Profiling this region had been institutionalized for a very long time and we cannot sit back and watch this act without raising the alarm and vehement objection. Let the will of the people of this region be respected. Our appeal is that let every presidential candidate be contended with the votes they receive and Kenyans will judge. We are saddened that the Inspector General of Police sounds the alarm of innocence at a time when there is overwhelming evidence of excessive force in dealing with anti-IEBC protests. These protesters are Kenyans and, irrespective of their social status, their lives matter and are no less important than the life of those in power. The life of a street rioter is as important as the life of the child Boinnet himself and his commanders on the ground have sired. Please, our security forces, turn the bullets meant for ordinary people elsewhere. Don’t rejoice in shedding blood. It is sinful, immoral and criminal. We ask Matiang’i to withdraw the large contingent of paramilitary personnel from Nyanza, since their presence in the region is a cause for worry. In view of this, we ask for a complete stop of profiling of the people of Luo Nyanza forthwith. Respect our dignity, nationality and human rights. The writer is the Bondo ACK Bishop   