The search has intensified in Lake Nakuru for the bodies of three passengers of a helicopter that crashed 10 days ago. Only two of five bodies have been recovered. The delay and inability to find the others, and locate the chopper, have prompted fierce criticism. The search resumed after those who fell ill at the weekend rejoined their colleagues. Those aboard the helicopter were Nakuru Sanator Susan Kihika’s bloggers Sam Gitau, John Mapozi and Antony Kipyegon. Others were pilot Apolo Malowa and a friend, Veronica Muthoni. Malowa and Kipyegon’s bodies were retrieved on Monday last week. They were identified by their families. Rift Valley regional coordinator Wanyama Musiambo yesterday said they have acquired eight boats and more than 40 divers who are taking part in the operation. “I want to assure the families we shall not leave the site until we recover the bodies, no matter how long it will take us,” he said. Ten divers from Mombasa, led by Moses Owala, joined the operation on Monday last week. Some divers contracted typhoid and malaria and were treated in Nakuru on Saturday. They resumed duty yesterday. Diver Namoya Mohamed said, “It was a minor issue. It arose because of climate change, but we were treated and are now back for the operation to retrieve the remaining bodies.” Public health officer Samuel King’ori said three divers were suffering from typhoid. “Two of the divers were vomiting and feeling dizzy and were taken to Rift Valley Provincial General Hospital, where they were found to be suffering from malaria,” he said. He added that those who contracted malaria were from Mombasa. They did not take anti-malaria drugs before travelling to Nakuru, King’ori said. The ailments also could have been attributed to the contamination of the lake by sewerage. The clergy and county leaders held interdenominational prayers with the bereaved on Sunday. Nakuru Church Elders Council chairman Sammy Ngahu led the ceremony. On Sunday, a team of 10 geologists from the Ministry of Mining joined the recovery team. The team brought with them a magnetometer to aid in the recovery efforts. National Disaster Management Unity deputy director Pius Masai said main problems include poor visibility because of dirty water. “Others are a wide search area, the presence of wild animals and heavy rains.” Masai appealed for calm. The families of the victims have been camping on the shore every day. They have been braving the scorching sun and sometimes heavy rains for the past eight days.