NASA is facing an increasingly uphill task of containing Jubilee's growth in Kilifi county. More grassroots leaders are jumping ship ahead of the fresh October 26 presidential election.  Despite Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi's confidence that NASA, and particularly ODM is dominant, analysts say Jubilee is making significant inroads. Kilifi has about 508,068 voters. Jubilee is targeting 15 per cent of the votes, which translate to around 70,000 votes. In August 8 General Election, Jubilee’s President Uhuru Kenyatta garnered 49,693 votes, an increase of about 50 per cent of what he got in 2013. “There is a lot of discontent within the NASA fraternity in Kilifi. This might cause voter apathy,” said Coast political analyst Mwakuja Mrombo. He spoke to the Star on the phone Tuesday. On Sunday, Kilifi governor aspirant Michael Jefwa led 15 losing MCA candidates in denouncing NASA. This follows the defection of another 15 losing MCA candidates from NASA to Jubilee on Friday. Jefwa said he was disappointed with Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka's leadership, after he was 'denied' the party ticket in favour of Gabriel Katana. Katana did not even make it to the ballot. He was disqualified for being registered in both Wiper and former Nyali MP Hezron Awiti’s Vibrant Democratic Party. Observers say such issues could cost NASA, if not addressed urgently. “People of Kilifi are tired of Raila Odinga. His words are very good and can entice a snake from the cave. But we don’t eat wordsi,” Jefwa said on Sunday. He said the difference between Jubilee and NASA is that JP does what it says while the opposition is full of rhetoric. He cited the tarmac road from Mariakani to Mavueni, Malindi to Tsavo, Kakoneni and Marafa. They had never been tarmacked since independence. Chonyi and Jaribuni have been upgraded to sub-counties which position them for development. “We the people of Kilifi have no reason not to support Uhuru Kenyatta,” Jefwa said. Reports of at least four MCAs nominated to the county assembly being from Nairobi and Siaya county has caused consternation. However, Kingi has dismissed the reports, saying they are fabrications by by Jubilee sympathisers. He said he would have been more worried if the protests came from ODM and not members of other other parties. “In ODM we have a mechanism to handle such a matter. We will address that if it comes from ODM members,” Kingi told the Star. Mrombo says it is such reports that make NASA supporters in Kaloleni, Rabai and Kilifi South constituencies jittery. Tinga on Sunday said NASA has been using Kilifi people.  “Raila has done nothing for the Kilifi people. He has only used us like blind chicken. A blind chicken scratches the earth for food but is it the ones which see that eat the food,” said Jefwa. This situation will benefit Jubilee, according to Mrombo.