IT is said life is like a game of chess and in politics one has to play his tactfully to outshine rivals. Indeed, the former Bungoma Governor Kenneth Lusaka, now the Senate Speaker, played properly, outshining his political nemesis and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula. Lusaka’s strategic gamble with Jubilee to become Wetang’ula’s boss in the Senate was a shocker the NASA co-principal never imagined could happen. Word has it that the eloquently talkative Senate Minority Leader has never spoken in the House since Lusaka assumed office. Many Bungoma residents have been eagerly waiting to see Wetang’ula on his feet, honouring Lusaka by addressing him as “Mr Speaker”, after their earlier rivalry over county leadership. However, the senator has disappointed the residents who watch him on TV entering the Chamber then suddenly disappear into thin air – without a word! ******* TRUST them to engage in mischief and cover it up! MPs are now using online services to facilitate their sexual activities. Senior officers in the city’s top hotels said the MPs and senators make reservations online for hotel rooms in the city. After booking online they insist they are an MP so that their personal information is not captured. They actually say that it’s dangerous for them to give personal details due to their security and social status. However, it’s never about security – it’s all about hiding their sexual drama. Our moles insist that immediately they get into the rooms, the clande will always arrive 30 minutes later.  ******* IN one of the gubernatorial petitions at the Milimani law courts, funny things unfolded in the High Court on Monday. An incumbent governor who is being petitioned resorted to non-legal measures when his PA came to the court in the company of a well-known witchdoctor from the county. Despite being an illiterate who cannot even follow the court proceedings, the “healer” sat in the second row behind the lawyers and stared directly and unblinkingly at the judge. He also murmured quietly and held his hands up and down throughout the session. ****** A Jubilee honcho from Central Kenya has of late gone mute in the middle of the raging political standoff. The lawmaker, a fierce defender of President Uhuru Kenyatta, claims he has been sidelined to just a peripheral role in the ongoing Jubilee campaigns. He once breathed fire and fired salvos left, right and centre, but his latest laid-back attitude speaks volumes. The vocal MP once led a fringe political grouping that allegedly collected millions from State House for harambees in the nascent days of Uhuru’s tenure. They say he is his own worst enemy.              