Election Laws (Amendment) Bill will cause more confusion than it seeks to address, IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati has said. Chebukati said the only necessary changes are those relating to laws declared unconstitutional. In a presentation to Parliament on Thursday, he added acceptable changes are also those seeking to correct and clarify the law regarding elections management and results declaration processes. The chairman noted the Bill is critical considering conflicting decisions in the Court of Appeal case by activist Maina Kiai and the Supreme Court's ruling on NASA's petition. "The bill will affect the electoral process in a material way, considering IEBC has developed training materials, trained a considerable number of returning officers and reviewed and ordered the printing of training materials based on the existing law," he said. He added the amendments as proposed seek to introduce new terminologies unknown to election management. Read: Don't limit IEBC chair's powers, no need for more laws - Chebukati Also read: Jubilee MPs meet to amend election laws The Bill seeks to streamline IEBC's operations in case the chairperson quits or cannot exercise his mandate.  It says the vice chair should take over should the chair quit and that should this be impossible, other five members should elect a chairperson from among themselves. In addition, the commission's decisions can now be made by half the number of existing commissioners as long as the quorum is three. Chebukati further said the clause that says the IEBC chairman shall be a person who is qualified to hold the office of Judge of the Supreme Court under the constitution should not be changed. "Elections are managed through a complex web of legal procedures that require the head of the institution to be competent. Delete the proposal," Chebukati said. The chairman further said Parliament should define the term 'live- Streaming' and replace 'electronically and manually transmit' with 'electronically transmit and physical delivery of results'. The results of the next presidential election will be determined by what is transmitted manually if MPs pass the Bill. The Bill seeks to amend the IEBC Act, the Election Act and the Elections Offences Act by giving manually transmitted results more clout than the electronically transmitted ones. It states that where there is a discrepancy between the electronically transmitted and manually transmitted results, the manually transmitted shall prevail. More on this: MPs push for manual results to trump electronic in president race Also read: Chebukati moves to Supreme Court over correcting Forms 34B errors The attached matrix provides the commission's position on each of the clauses in the two Bills. 