Last weekend, I read my old friend and former workmate Kamau Ngotho’s Saturday Nation article on the mystery surrounding the person of Prof George Saitoti. The article got me thinking about mental health in general. Mental health issues remain largely taboo in Kenya and many other places around the world, and it is time the stigma around it was dropped. Let’s be honest, there is no health without mental health. It is just asimportant as physical health, since the mind and body are inseparable. Ngotho described the late former Vice President in a way that made him appear not eccentric or slightly odd, but as though he suffered from serious paranoia or what people refer to as paranoid schizophrenia. According to the article, Saitoti appeared to be unreasonably suspicious of others, had few if any friends, and had been so since his schooldays. In some ways, the description of the former associate professor and head of the mathematics department at the University of Nairobi matched that of his former colleague, and some might say one of his political mentors, Nicholas Biwott, who died earlier this year. Like Biwott, Saitoti seemed to mistrust everything and everyone, according to Ngotho, bringing his own bottled water to public functions and booking three different hotel rooms to throw off anyone who might have been trying to keep tabs on him. It was said of Biwott that few if any of his colleagues, let alone his constituents, knew exactly where he lived. I know for a fact that he used to regularly switch cars, having once seen him do the switch while I was standing at a bus stop on Waiyaki Way a number of years ago. Here in South Africa, October is Mental Health Awareness month, so we can expect lots of seminars, articles and campaigns about mental wellbeing, such as the promotion of resilience to stress, anxiety, etc. I’m no expert in mental health, but I have had my fair bit of experience and discussions of people affected by them, and frankly, in the same way that the stigma around other illnesses has been dealt with, there should be no big deal about mental health. Mental illness is as legitimate an affliction as any other medical condition. Mental health problems are common across the population, with the most discussed beingdepression, anxiety, drug and alcohol abuse. Sadly, there is still too much discrimination against people who disclose or are even suspected of having mental health problems. People would rather whisper and snigger behind the backs of others, and especially public figures, who are thought or even known to suffer from alcoholism, bipolar disorder or even paranoia, than to deal with the issue head-on. Perhaps one day we will have leaders who feel confident enough to disclose and share their conditions, and by so doing, encourage others in the community to do the same. Once upon a time, cancer, diabetes, and more recently HIV, were considered taboo. Today, sufferers are no longer as stigmatised. One day, the same will happen for mental health.