Prior to 1868, Blacks in America were treated as foreigners in their own land, both under the law and by fellow Americans.  This was especially by the Whites, who saw them as inferior to them. This phenomenon bothered politicians with a conscience, such that they successfully made a push for —and ultimately had — the 14th Amendment to the US Constitution, ratified in 1868.  However, discrimination against Blacks did not end with this amendment. Rather, in the decades after its adoption, it even got even, leading civil rights leaders and their lawyers to use the equal protection clause to more effectively combat racial segregation only to run into a brick wall in 1896. The US Supreme Court ruled that states could constitutionally provide segregated facilities for African Americans, so long as they were equal to those afforded the White persons.  The decision, which legalised the so-called “separate but equal” doctrine, was eventually used to justify segregating all public facilities, including railroad cars, restaurants, hospitals, and schools and obviously, “coloured” facilities were never equal to their White counterparts’. African Americans suffered through decades of debilitating discrimination in the South and elsewhere in the US.  It was not until 1954, when the Supreme Court finally struck down this awful law in Brown v. Board of Education, which in turn paved way for the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, after which blacks finally started to enjoy full rights of citizenship, even though institutional racism persists to this day albeit not as widespread and entrenched. Our own Supreme Court’s historic ruling in the NASA petition is akin to the ratification of the 14th Amendment in the US.  Much as the 14th Amendment laid down the law that everyone born in the US had equal rights under the law, so did the Supreme Court lay down the law that every voter has equal voting rights, and every legally cast vote has equal value and weight. Any effort to devalue, give it less weight or altogether discount it by fake or manufactured vote is unconstitutional and any election that’s the product of such abuse of voter’s rights cannot be allowed to stand. In nullifying the August 8 presidential election, the Supreme Court, or more precisely, the wise majority noted in the historic ruling that the election must be held in full compliance to the Constitution. Based on this ruling, NASA made demands that it considered “irreducible minimums” on reforms it says must be met by the IEBC or “there will not be elections.” UhuRuto responded with “kwani nyinyi ni nani?” promising no election if these reforms are not made? To that daring, NASA held a presser announcing Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka were withdrawing from the October 26 repeat election. Note how NASA puts this — the withdrawal is in the future, not present or something they have already done and that’s legally significant because, unless Raila formally withdraws, he’s still a candidate. Which brings up the point of this column. Given the historic ruling, given the law is behind NASA, given the people behind NASA and given there’s plenty of time left to recruit, train and post bona fide agents in every polling station and in every constituency tallying center, and given it’s the law of the land only results from constituency tallying centers will be used to determine who wins the presidency, then it behooves NASA to go to the polls, even with a flawed IEBC, protect the vote and dare UhuRuto to yet again thuggishly rig. And, if they do, they will be met with a certain nullification except this time the Supreme Court has to and must use its sua sponte powers to declare the winner of the most votes as reflected in genuine Forms 34Bs as the validly elected President. Doing anything else would undermine and even totally undo the Supreme Court’s historic ruling and set us back decades before coming back to this point.  