IG Joseph Boinnet has denied use of excessive force in quelling anti-poll protests in Opposition strongholds despite reports on the contrary. Speaking to journalists in Nairobi during the presidential rerun on Thursday, he said police are managing security in counties facing challenges. "Some goons are preventing the election but we are managing it according to the law. We don't use excessive forces on our people," he said. "The situation in all counties is okay except for parts in Nyanza and Nairobi (Kibera and Mathare)." NASA leader Raila Odinga's supporters clashed with police and threw up burning barricades to challenge the legitimacy of the rerun. In Kisumu, one died after stone-throwing youths clashed with police. Police resorted to using water cannons, bullets and teargas to disperse crowds but the youths did not relent. Running battles and gunshots featured in Nairobi as police intensified patrols. Anti-riot officers watched from strategic locations and patrolled around polling stations during the exercise that Opposition supporters have largely ignored. In Kibera and Mathare, the youths engaged police in running battles from 6am when they began barricading the roads. Kibera demonstrators blocked roads leading into the shanty estate that hosts some of the biggest polling stations such as Olympic Primary School and old Olympic. Gunshots were heard from a distance as police dispersed crowds so others could vote. More on this: Kibera residents burn tyres, block roads to prevent voting Also read: Gunshots, teargas as police intensify election patrols in Nairobi  Raila and his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) pulled out of the election saying IEBC was incapable of ensuring a free, fair and credible process. But President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto have insisted it is legitimate. After voting today, they said it is unfortunate that Kenyans have been denied the freedom and right to choose leaders. More on this: UhuRuto vote, regret that Kenyans denied right to choose president  