I remember the first time my family got a video camera. We are the type of family who always took photos. Walk anywhere in my parents house and you will see photos of my family from wedding photos, baby photos of my siblings and I, university graduations and just days when my mum thought we looked good! I’m pretty sure I knew how to say “cheese” before I could string along a full sentence. But our video camera opened up a whole new set of opportunities to record precious memories! I remember it was Christmas and we got my mum one of those bulky video cameras that had tiny cassettes in them and you could connect it to your TV to watch the videos back. From that day almost every moment of our lives was recorded! I’m sure I’m not the only one. Millennials might get slack for constantly being in front of the camera and recording everything that we do, but really if you think about it, most of us grew up with our parents pointing a camera in our faces and asking us to smile! So it’s not a surprise that for a significant percentage of people choose their phones based on the camera that it comes with. While the size of the “video camera” may have changed, the need to document our lives, to preserve those memories has not. Choosing a phone with a good camera has become easier thanks to improved technology and wider distribution. But when it comes to choosing a brand, OPPO has become known for their innovative camera phones and no where is it more evident in their newest model, the OPPO A71. With a 13MP back camera and a 5mp front camera, this new mid-range phone helps capture amazing selfies with their beauty setting and even panorama selfies, so you’ll never cut anyone out of the group photo again! On top of that, with the Ultra HD mode, the back 13MP photos can make photos that are 50MP! That makes them good enough to print high quality photos to fill up those photo frames. For your videos, even in low light, the A71 camera will definitely capture all those exciting moments (Check out the United Sounds of Africa Recap video shot entirely on the OPPO A71). If you want to start recording your memories, the new OPPO A71 is available now for only 19,990/= at any OPPO branded shops.     