A suspected drug dealer was on Saturday shot dead by police in Lamu East. Mohamed Hassan, 27, had been on police radar as a notorious drug dealer in the area. He was shot dead after he attacked and injured a police officer on the right hand with a machete. The officers had raided the suspect's drug den after a tip-off from members of the public. “Four of us raided the drug den in a hunt for suspects. The others surrendered but he resisted and even attacked another officer. He cut him severally on the right hand. He was so violent we had to shot him down. He was shot in the lower abdomen,” one of the officers who requested anonymity said. Police carried the raid at 1.30pm. Lamu county commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo termed the suspect as dangerous. “It’s true. The officers had to shoot the suspect dead. He even attacked and physically assaulted one of the officers with a machete. They had to act in self-defence. Several sachets of heroin and two machetes were recovered from him,” said Kitiyo. Read; Lamu police arrest two drug peddlers, recover 22 sachets of heroin Meanwhile, police officers from Kizingitini Police Station in Lamu East led by OCS Elam Esendi have arrested ten more drug suspects as the crackdown on narcotics intensifies in the county. The suspects were arrested on Saturday and early Sunday morning. Kitiyo said police officers raided Pate village and managed to arrest Ahmed Bwanamkuu, 58. He was found in possession of 16 big rolls of bhang. Atwas Mohamed Masoud, a notorious drug dealer who also faces prosecution for a myriad of other crimes of burglary and Mohamed Abu Somo was also arrested. Four other drug suspects who were arrested in Tchundwa village are Ali Bwanamkuu,35, Yusuf Swalihina,30, Binkaim Yusuf, 30, and Issa Bwanadi Abuu,20. According to the county commissioner, all the four will be charged jointly with being in possession of heroin. Police also arrested drug dealer Omar Hussein Shee at Swafaa area in Lamu town who was found in possession of heroin and other apparatus used in smoking and sniffing drugs including candles, a matchbox, soot-coated broken glass and razor blades. Another notorious criminal, Ali Ahmed Abdalla,43, who has been on the run after several incidents of robbery with violence was also arrested over the weekend at Wiyoni area. Kitiyo said all those arrested will be arraigned in court on Monday. The arrests comes barely a week after eight key drug suspects were arrested within Lamu town and in Kizingitini in a crackdown for drug peddlers launched by police this month. They were found in possession of bhang, heroin and several items used to sniff and smoke drugs and were presented in court on Friday last week. Read; Two more drug dealers arrested in Lamu Also read: 6 notorious drug peddlers nabbed by Lamu cops at drugs den in crackdown