Biafra Estate residents in Thika have protested against the rampant dumping of dead fetuses in the area. The aggrieved locals accused one health facility within Thika town of conducting abortions and chucking the fetuses into flash water tunnels in the estate. On Monday, locals woke up and found three fetuses wrapped with polythene bags dumped in the area. They also found receipts from Vineyard Hospital, among other disposables, including syringes, gloves and catheters. The infuriated locals called on the relevant authorities to take action against the proprietors of the Hospital claiming that they are responsible for the dumping of the preterm dead fetuses and other hospital waste.  The locals, who spoke to the Star said, they usually wake up to foul smell coming from waste water trenches but assume that it’s the normal burst sewerage. “We were shocked to find hospital waste and dead fetuses dumped here. This is affecting our health and that of our kids. We fear that our children might contract diseases if they prick themselves with the waste like syringes, while playing. This matter must be addressed immediately by the authorities,” Eunice Nyokabi, a resident, said. Teresia Muthoni,75, a resident who cuts grass for sale in the area, said the waste is usually stashed by individuals on boda bodas in the night or very early in the morning, mostly during weekends. “We’ve been burning the waste and we are tired of it now. Action must be taken against these local clinics that are procuring abortions and dumping the waste here carelessly,” Muthoni said. Michael Mwai called on the authorities to thoroughly investigate the matter and all health facilities in the area to determine who’s behind the menace. He said that due to competition the clinics’ proprietors might be on a witch hunt to tarnish the names of their rivals. However Vineyard Hospital proprietor Dr Martin Wachira refuted the claims made by the locals saying that he has never procured abortions in his facility. He added that waste coming from his facility is properly disposed according to NEMA regulations as he has contracted professional waste handlers fully licensed by the Authority. “Even my faith prohibits such inhumane acts. I have nothing to hide and my conscience is very clear. This is just a ploy by my competitors to tarnish my name,” Wachira said. “When my waste handlers are not available, we take all hospital waste to Thika Level 5 incinerator,” he added. Dr Wachira called on the authorities to investigate the matter and bring to book the culprits behind the dumping of the waste in the estate. “The individuals behind the criminal act are out there to malign me with the negative deeds so as to drive me out of business. The police should now do thorough investigations and shed the light to locals on who’s behind it. Against action should be taken against the criminals,” he said. The Kenyan Constitution 2010 article 26 (4) illegalizes abortion unless in the opinion of a trained health professional, there is need for emergency treatment, or the life or health of the mother is in danger, or if permitted by any other written law.