COULD former Budalang’i MP Ababu Namwamba and his team have forgotten
that their bosses - President Uhuru
Kenyatta and Deputy President William
Ruto – once vowed that no Kenyan citizen should be tried “at a foreign
court”. On Sunday, Namwamba told the country that a team of researchers and
investigators has been deployed across the country to collect evidence on
election-related violence instigated by the opposition. The evidence would be
submitted to International Criminal Court at The Hague. But now some Kenyans
would like to remind Namwamba and team that politicians allied to UhuRuto ran
well-oiled campaigns to discredit the court, vowing no one from Kenya will have
ever be taken to the court again. ***** A legislator who lost in the
August polls from Western is a very restless man. Reason? Word has it that the
former lawmaker, whose stand on supporting either Jubilee or NASA remains
between himself and his maker, is in dire need of a county job. It is said the
lukewarm MP, who sometimes backed President Uhuru Kenyatta’s reelection and sometimes NASA leader Raila Odinga’s election, has been
camping at a county headquarters controlled by an opposition governor hunting
for an appointive job. Those close to the ex-MP say the impending political
oblivion for the next five years has made him so disturbed that his wavering
political stand could cost him dearly. For one thing, the county boss is not
ready to have him in his administration for fear of working with a 'mole' to
serve two masters at a go. ***** A personal bodyguard to a
Member of Parliament in Laikipia county has allegedly withdrawn his services
after the legislator treated him like a small child. The bodyguard has been
heard complaining that the woman MP has been mistreating her staff by shouting
at and frog-marching them on the slightest excuse. The legislator has been
boasting of her looks, and has been spotted taking selfies with the who is who
in the country’s political circles. Word has it that the former cyber cafe
attendant in Nanyuki town recently instigated the removal and sacking of a
female employee in the law firm of her ‘husband’. Voters in the county are
complaining that the woman is moving too fast, barely three months into the
office.  ***** SOME officers attached to a
police station in Kiambu county are lamenting in low tones over alleged tribal
discrimination by their OCPD as they conduct their work ahead of Thursday’s
fresh presidential poll. Our mole inside the police station says the police
boss has been holding frequent meetings with officers from his tribe and
disregarding all others. 