Samburu MCAs have raised concern over the state of the county referral hospital in Maralal town. The MCAs said the health facility, which had received huge amounts of money in the previous government, had turned into a low-end facility. Maralal ward representative, Fred Kiragu, told the county assembly that when the MCAs visited the hospital they found out that most of the equipment were not working or were in poor working conditions. "What we found and saw at the facility during a tour made us shed tears," said Kiragu. Kiragu added they found out that the standards of Maralal referral hospitals had dropped drastically. "When the health committee visited the hospital we realized there were no drugs, the dental unit was closed and the laboratory was not working. Having a major hospital in that situation is an invitation to death," he said. Kiragu added that a Sh15 million dialysis machine lie idle in the hospital because after it was purchased none of the staff was trained to use it. "The government invested Sh15 million in a dialysis machine that no one knows how to operate it. It will spend more money in getting someone to train the health workers how to use the machine," he told the house. The ward representative lamented that area residents were now depending on their leaders to buy them drugs since there are no drugs at the facility. "Our county referral hospital has now turned into a 'referring' hospital as what it does is to refer patients to Nakuru and Nairobi," he added. Our investigations revealed that the hospitals dental unit is poorly equipped with only one adjustable seat. Patients visiting the hospital with tooth problems that require surgery or with jaw fractures are always referred to other facilities. The hospital serves the whole of Samburu county including Wamba in Samburu East and Baragoi in Samburu North. The governors CEC nominee for health, Mary Kanyaman Ekai was rejected by the county assembly vetting committee over lack of professionalism. A section of health workers had protested her nomination accusing her of micromanaging the facility. Read; Hunger kills Nine in Samburu County