Nyamira county commissioner Isaiah Nakoru has assured residents of security during tomorrow’s repeat presidential election. Speaking in Nyamira on Monday, Nakoru said all arrangements have been made to ensure voters will be protected. Nyamira had been perceived as a NASA stronghold but no longer. On August 8, President Uhuru Kenyatta turned the tables on NASA’s Raila Odinga. He won 100,658 votes against the former Prime Minister’s 89,638.  Nakoru, who spoke at the opening of Omokonge special school in Nyamira, urged people to vote in large numbers. ‘‘We should not listen to those telling us to boycott the election because we all know that voting is a constitutional right,’’ Nakoru said. The function was presided over by Christine Kenyatta, sister to President Uhuru Kenyatta. She asked Nyamira residents to vote without fear of intimidation. Christine called for unity and urged Nyamira residents to maintain peace as they vote. “It is very difficult to leave in a country without peace. That is why we must all guard the peace we have been enjoying,” Christine said.  Nakoru warned NASA supporters against plans to disrupt the elections. He said the government will ruthlessly deal with any disruptions. He spoke on the same day NASA supremo Raila Odinga led other alliance leaders in the Gusii region at a rally in Kisii where they called for an election boycott. Raila said Gusii residents should not participate in the election because IEBC ignored his calls for agency reforms. Raila told residents to maintain peace even as they stay at home on election day.  He accused Jubilee leaders of trying to divide Kenyans along tribal lines. Nakoru who also called for peace, asked residents to turn out and vote. ‘‘Our security officials are ready to ensure that the voters are safe on voting day. So we call upon residents to come out and vote on Thursday,” Nakoru said.  Nakoru’s assurance came  barely a day after acting Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i made similar guarantees to Nyamira residents.   Matiang’i said the government will ensure proper security during and after tomorrow’s election. “There is nothing to fear because the government is ready to counter any form of disruption or chaos,” Matiangi’s said. He was speaking on Sunday during the opening of Igena Itambe health centre in Basamaro ward, West Mugirango constituency.  The CS was accompanied by former minister Henry Obwocha, former Kitutu Masaba MP Walter Nyambati and lawyer Ken Ogeto.  Matiang’i warned youths against participating in NASA demonstrations, saying members of the Gusii community are not known for taking to the streets.