Hotel occupancy across the country has dropped to below 30 per cent over the country’s political turbulence, driving hotels into massive losses. Kenya Association of Hotel Keepers and Caterers chief executive Mike Macharia yesterday said major cities have been hardest hit, with both domestic and international tourists opting to visit other countries owing to the ongoing political tension. “Bed occupancy is probably below 30 per cent across the board, Kisumu 20 per cent and below while Nairobi may be just at the 30 per cent mark. Our partners have told us that they are really suffering,” he said. “The current political environment is affecting our future bookings, it has affected tourists that should be here now, so, obviously, business is not going well.” Macharia said the third quarter is normally peak season for the tourism industry, with bed occupancy ranging between 60 and 70 per cent across the country. “The safari circuit, which includes Maasai Mara, Tsavo, Samburu and the rest, haven’t really registered that much of a drop and this is because the market knows once you are out there, you are not really affected,” Macharia said. The tourism industry is highly dependent on the country’s macro-economic environment, which in light of the September 1 Supreme Court ruling, has seen increased protests around the country in the run-up to the proposed fresh presidential polls scheduled for October 26.  “With the protests, a very bad image is going out to the market,” he said. The Kenya Association of Travel Agents reiterated the same, adding that travel bookings had been cut by 30 per cent over political unrest. “This is a time when there is normally a lot of travel, but, due to the current situation, people are not willing to travel over the uncertainty,” KATA chief executive Nicanor Sabula told the Star. With average monthly ticket sales estimated at about Sh5 billion, Sabula said travel agents had lost at least Sh1.5 billion worth of revenue over the past two months as a result of political unrest. “We fear if we continue like this heading into December, we will see a further dip in revenues to over Sh3 billion if the current situation is not quickly resolved, jobs in the tourism industry may also be at stake,” he said. A passenger coming into the country yesterday indicated that only 100 passengers were on board an Emirates flight which has a capacity of more than 300 passengers, further proof that the political tension are scaring away international tourists.