Governors have threatened to move to court over delays by the National Treasury to release money to counties. The county chiefs said lack of funds has crippled projects and the running of the 47 governments. They said despite the Senate’s approval for the disbursement of the funds, the national government has deliberately delayed to release the cash. The most affected services include health, education, disaster management and public works. The last time counties received money from the National Treasury was in July, when the 2016-17 year ended. “I can see this is a violation of the Constitution that President Uhuru Kenyatta swore to protect,” Council of Governor’s Finance Committee chairman and Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya told the Star yesterday. On Monday, CoG chairman Josphat Nanok wrote to Treasury CS Henry Rotich and copied the letter to Chief of Staff and Head of Public Service to remind them that counties cannot operate without funds. “Noting the content of the Senate letter, the Council would like to highlight that due to the late approval of the schedule, county governments have not received their monthly disbursement dating back to the month of July,” the letter reads. On September 17, the Clerk of the Senate sent a reminder to Rotich regarding the Cash Disbursement Schedule to county Governments for the financial year 2017-18. “This is to bring to your attention that on Thursday, 14th September 2017, the Senate considered and approved the Cash Disbursement Schedule in order to enable operationalisation of monthly transfer of funds from the Consolidated Fund account to the respective County Revenue Accounts,” clerk Jeremiah Nyegenye said. The delays mean that counties cannot procure goods and services or pay suppliers and contractors.  “I have a strong development agenda for our county with tough deadlines to serve my people. We read mischief, but we will not go to Jubilee to beg for development projects,” Oparanya said. The Public Finance Act mandates the National Treasury to disburse money to county governments by 15th of every month. Deputy President William Ruto is the chairman of the intergovernmental Budget and Economic Council. Uhuru is the Summit chairman. The two organisations harmonise activities between the county and national governments. Oparanya said the Council of Governors, IBEC and the Summit have not met for a long time. Uhuru’s critics warned the delay is part of the wider scheme to frustrate devolution, while others added he was delaying the funds to frustrate NASA governors ahead of the October 26 fresh polls.