The High Court yesterday temporarily suspended a gazette notice which was to effect the imposition of excise stamps on bottled water, juices, soda, other non-alcoholic beverages and cosmetics. Justice John Mativo issued the orders temporarily after activist Okiya Omtatah moved to court challenging the gazette notice published on October 3 by KRA declaring that from November 1, the said goods were to have excise duty stickers on their packages. According to this notice, the said goods, whether imported or manufactured locally, were to be affixed with excise stamps as from Wednesday, November 1. In the case, Omtatah has sued the Treasury Cabinet Secretary, Henry Rotich, KRA Commissioner General John Njiraini and Switzerland-based firm called SICPA Securities. According to the petition, Omtatah argues that the notice is contrary to directions of the Public Investments Committee of the 11th Parliament, which suspended implementation of excisable goods management systems by the sued parties pending conclusion of investigations by the National Assembly. This petition had been filed before the National Assembly in June by the Kenya Private Sector Alliance, hence the matter is still pending. Omtatah told the court that the matter was urgent since it exposes manufacturers, importers and consumers to the burden of meeting extra production costs, unlawfully. KRA wants manufacturers of non-alcoholic beverages, food supplements and cosmetics to affix excise duty stamps on their products as the taxman plans to roll out a system to enhance tax compliance will take a little bit longer. The revenue collector wanted to introduce excise duty stamps through the Excise Goods Management System (EGMS) for beer, mineral water, juices and soft drinks. The excise duty stamps, rolled out in 2013 and initially focused on tobacco products, wines and spirits, have seen KRA extend its enforcement to other alcoholic beverages, and now non-alcoholic and bottled drinks to rid the market of counterfeit products. Last week, KRA said it plans to recover at least Sh3.6 billion per year when excise duty stamp regulations come into effect. According to commissioner for domestic taxes Benson Korongo, the decision to extend use of excise stamps to the non-alcoholic sector was mainly informed by the need to address concerns on the proliferation of unregulated products and enhancing tax revenue. “Currently, revenue performance in this sector is at less than 40 per cent. The roll-out of EGMS to this sector is aimed at reversing this poor tax compliance,” he told the Star.