Patients who have recently tested HIV positive risk missing critical lab tests due to the nurses’ strike. This is Day 145 of the walkout, though some nurses have returned to work. The walkout continues in some 11 counties. When a person tests HIV positive he or she needs haemoglobin tests to measure protein in red blood cells. Liver and kidney functions are also tested before patients are put on life-prolonging treatment. “Though HIV clinics are run by clinical officers, nurses play a critical role in counselling and health check-ups before referring patients to clinical officers,” Network of People Living with HIV chairman Nelson Otuoma told the Star on the phone. He said if the strike is not addressed soon, Kenya could soon face a resurgence of new HIV infections, especially among newborns. Otuoma said antenatal care has been seriously undermined.  “We are not saying the nurses strike is not important. What they are asking for are valid concerns. But we must also complain and tell the government it must find a solution to this stalemate to avoid rolling back on the gains that have been made in the fight against HIV,” Otuoma said. The National Aids Control Council says 600,000 HIV-related deaths have been prevented in 14 years.  There has been a decline of children’s infection from 27,000 in 2009 to about 7,000 in 2015. About 9,471 Kenyans died of HIV-related illness last year, down from 11,131 the previous year. The nurses went on strike on June 5, seeking signing and implementing of their CBA.  It includes better pay and working conditions, provisions for promotions, increased allowances for risks and uniforms. Chairman of the clinical officers union, Peterson Wachira, also told the Star the workload of their members has increased threefold since they resumed work three weeks ago. “We are forced to even do nurses’ duties because we cannot let a patient suffer just because the other workforce is not there. The situation is really sad in hospitals,” he said.  “Unfortunately, everyone is focusing on politics, which is why people don’t see it as a big deal.”  The number of patients seeking admission has dropped by more than half as there’s no one to take care of them, Wachira said. To reduce impact of the strike, the government last week launched a “catch campaign” in 11 counties, where nurses are still on strike.  It targets children under five who missed six critical vaccinations and mothers attending antenatal and postnatal clinics.