Political uncertainty is likely to interfere with Kenya’s final regulatory hurdles to start direct flights to the United States next year. According to the regulatory schedule ahead of the maiden trip, the US Transportation Security Administration (TSA) were expected in the country before the end of this month to carry out final audit at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport. This is after the US team postponed the exercise in June to allow the country to conduct the General Election in August this year. Even so, the presidential results were annulled in September by the Supreme Court, setting stage for fresh presidential elections slated for Thursday, only three days before end of the month. Speaking to the Star on the phone yesterday, Transport CS James Macharia indicated that the inspection is still on and will be conducted in the next two weeks, probably after the October 26th fresh presidential election. Macharia expressed confidence that the US team will grant JKIA a clean bill of health, setting the stage for Kenya Airways to start direct flights to the US next year. ‘’We are expecting them at the tail of this month or early November. Our teams at the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority and Kenya Airport Authority have prepared adequately for the exercise,’’ said Macharia. If the audit is successful, JKIA will receive the Last Point of Departure status, allowing KQ to fly to the US directly from Nairobi. The TSA’s office of global strategies developed a methodology, using the threat, vulnerability and consequence model, to define the risk associated with each airport under its jurisdiction. This methodology ensures the allocation of OGS assets is based on the likelihood of a location being targeted (threat), the protective measures in place (vulnerability), and the impact of the loss of that airport’s services (consequence). Once this is determined, assessments are coordinated by the applicable TSA representatives and completed by a team of Transportation Security Specialists (TSSs) from one of the USA’s six regional operation centers located worldwide. On September 8, the United States government granted Kenya Airways a permit to operate direct flights to America. Prior to that, the President of the United States had been given a 61-day window to disapprove the permit. No objection was raised. Before that, Kenya was in February granted Category One status that permitted non-stop direct flights between the two countries. This is after officials from America’s Federal Aviation Administration assessed JKIA’s compliance to safety and security standards set by the International Aviation Safety Assessment. KCAA had not responded to our queries about its preparedness for the inspection by the time we went to press.