As KCPE exams begin today, GSU and other security teams have been deployed around schools in Kerio Valley and elsewhere in the North Rift to ensure the safety of candidates. GSU teams patrolled most areas. Security is tight because of banditry and the political situation following last Thursday's repeat presidential election. The area is predominantly a Jubilee zone and no violence was reported last Thursday during the repeat presidential election, despite NASA's call for a boycott. Meanwhile, the chairman of the National Parents Association asked the government to further step up security in areas disturbed by election violence in Nyanza and Western regions. “Parents and teachers there are worried about the safety or their children as they sit for exams and we urge the government and politicians to help provide an environment conducive to exam-taking," chairman Nicholas Maiyo said in Eldoret. Rehearsals were done in most schools. Rift Valley regional coordinator Wanyama Musiambo said security had been normalised in all counties, including 19 areas in Baringo declared to be disturbed and dangerous. “We are set for the exams in terms of security and we will ensure the candidates, invigilators and exam papers and material are strictly protected," Musiambo told the Star on phone yesterday. Maiyo said the opposition NASA should stop organising protests that will interfere with national examinations. “We really plead with our political leaders to sort out their differences through dialogue and avoid violence which affected the lives of our children, including KCPE and KCSE exam candidates,” Maiyo said. The National Council of Churches of Kenya hosted prayers for the candidates in Eldoret. It also wants the government to improve security in schools for the national exams. NCCK representatives and bishops in North Rift asked Interior acting cabinet secretary Fred Matiang'i to ensure KCPE and KCSE exam candidates are safe. NCCK chairman in Uasin Gishu Reverend Josphat Kimani said the political climate in the country may interfere with safety of candidates in parts of the county. "This children have prepared for the last eight years and the exams really touch on their future lives. We should provide them with the best environment for the exams," Kimani said. About 1.6 million candidates have registered to sit the examinations scheduled to last for a month. The KCPE exam is to begin today and end on Thursday. The KCSE exam is to run from November 6-30. Chairman of Imams and Preachers of Kenya Sheikh Abubakar Bini said politics had interfered with the exams calendar this year. The repeat of the presidential election was held last Thursday but violence broke out opposition strongholds and elections had to be postponed indefinitely.    