The inclusion of former Wiper secretary general Hassan Omar during Jubilee campaigns seems to have sent former Kisauni MP and Mombasa deputy governor candidate Ananiah Mwaboza into oblivion. Omar said if his petition against Governor Hassan Joho sails through, either governor candidate Suleiman Shahbal or him will fly the Jubilee flag. “If Shahbal stands a better chance, I will back down. If I do, he will support me,” he said Sunday when he joined Jubilee leaders, whom he once said are incompetent, in campaigns. Omar’s statement paints a picture there is already a preexisting agreement between him and Shahbal should there be a by-election. Omar wants Joho’s victory nullified. He said Joho was unfairly elected and the returning officer erred in making the declaration. Joho denied allegations of bribery as well as other election offences. So what next for Mwaboza, who was considered Deputy President William Ruto’s point man at the Coast? On Sunday, Mwaboza was tense, and unlike the other JP leaders, he did not cheer Omar when he spoke. He later said he is an elder and did not have to cheer. Yesterday, Mwaboza said Omar is a hypocrite. He said former senator Omar is clutching on a straw and holding on to ‘flimsy reeds’ to save himself. “Mfaa maji haachi kupapatika (someone who is drowning does not stop fiddling),” he said. Mwaboza said Jubilee lost the governor seat because Shahbal was the flagbearer. “The sentiments were there, they were everywhere... The majority said they wish Mwaboza was there,” he said. Mwaboza said Shahbal and Omar are “unprincipled” and it will be almost impossible for them to win during a by-election. He said unlike the two, he has remained loyal to Jubilee and its affiliate (URP) since 2010. Shahbal was in the opposition, but ditched then Cord for Jubilee. Omar was previously in Wiper. Mwaboza said, “With them, first they are riding on ABCD and if they fail, they feel they have been neglected. They are cheated on then cross over...” he said. In reference to Omar’s statement that appeared to lock him out of the Jubilee ticket in the event of a by-election, Mwaboza said, “That is their arrangement. I have got my own arrangements.” He said he would never pave way for “inconsistent Omar, who does not live up to political realities”. Mwaboza said he will fight for his space and fly the Jubilee flag in case of a by-election and in 2022. “The other time it was arranged democratically after being prevailed upon by our principals,” he said.  Mwaboza was initially interested in the governor seat, but Ruto brokered the deal that led to Shahabal running for the seat with Mwaboza as his deputy. Mwaboza said, “This time, if we talk of true democracy, it is not a question of leave me to do this. We will go for proper nominations and whoever emerges victorious will fly the flag.” He said a by-election would be music to his ears because this time, voters would be able to differente him from those who ride on political parties. “I’m not used to riding on party machinery. I do it personally out of passion. But with those others (Shahbal and Omar), they have ridden on the supremacy of parties,” Mwaboza said. He said were it not for him, Omar would not have grounds to petition. Mwaboza said his allies gave evidence, swore affidavits and were witnesses in his case. “I sent my point man Ali Mwatsau, who has been in touch with him. I didn’t want to be seen to be doing this because our target is Joho, no. We want justice and it is from all corners,” he said. Omar said Mombasa needs change, not “academic dwarfism” in an apparent reference to Joho’s academic qualifications. Mwaboza faulted Omar, saying he is a phoney because he remained silent when he fought Joho’s qualifications in court in 2013. “He was a senator. He never told Joho what he is telling us today about the academic dwarfism when we had spoken about it. We challenged him all along. So now he is doing it. Where was he at that time?” he said. Mwaboza said Omar had an opportunity to move a motion for Joho to be probed by the Education Committee. Omar was unavailable for comment.