“Is he in?” I ask Mr N’s secretary. She waves me in without buzzing his intercom. She has seen me there many times before. I walk in and find him on the phone. I’m nervous. Is this the man who sold me out?  He looks up as I walk in but doesn’t miss a beat and continues with his conversation. He waves me to the sofa. Not the reaction I was expecting. I sit down and watch him closely. His facial expressions betray nothing. The last time I saw him, he had picked me up after I escaped from my captors. I passed out in his car (drugged?) and woke up again to find myself recaptured, with no Mr N in sight. He must be part of that gang because here he is, cool as a cucumber, not looking at all surprised to see me. He finally finishes his conversation. “Samantha!” he says, replacing his handset. “I know you have many questions.”  I say nothing, waiting for him to say more. He holds my gaze instead. “Are you the one that was responsible for my kidnapping?” I finally ask. “Yes,” he responds with no hesitation. “I’m also the one responsible for letting you go.” “Why?!” I ask, aghast. “Why would you do something like that?    “Well, I found out you were stealing from me,” he says. “Clearly you needed to be taught a lesson.” Oh dear. He found out! How can one forget how all this started? I blackmailed Mr N (who, incidentally, thinks I’m carrying his child but in all likelihood, it’s Frank’s baby) and asked him for Sh2 million or I’d keep the child and drag him to court for a lot more in maintenance over the years. He flipped it around and agreed to give me Sh1 million plus a list of his friends we could run the same scam on. GG, the VIP and The Prude are all his friends. He picked them because they had everything to lose from a scandal like this one. We would split the money.  He was positive they’d pay up and to his credit, he wasn’t off the mark. So far, the VIP and GG have paid up. Mr N knows about GG’s payment but I lied and told him the VIP had threatened to call the cops on me. He’s a CS, so Mr N bought it. Which means I kept the VIP’s Sh2 million all to myself.  Still pending is The Prude, whose sex tape with me is all over social media. One can’t quite make out his face but the plan is to threaten to reveal his identity so he pays up. Then finally, there was Nabil. He was meant to be the last mark but it turns out that that was merely a setup to kidnap me because somehow, Mr N found out about the VIP’s cash. Oh, crap! “What? Nothing to say?” Mr N asks with a smirk. What can I say? Yes, I shortchanged him. I assumed the CS would never discuss that kind of thing with anyone. How did he find out? “He told you?” I ask with a hilariously small voice. It sounds strange even to my ears. “No,” he responds. “But I have eyes where you bank.”   Of course, he does. “I’ll give it back,” I say. “Yes, you will,” he responds. “Today. Have you gone to the police?” I shake my head. “Good. Now go get my money,” he says dismissively. 