Two people were shot dead in Bungoma on Friday as riots over the presidential rerun turned ugly. The first victim was killed at Keringet near the bus park after a rowdy crowd engaged police in running battles. A witness, Margaret Wekesa said the man only identified as Barasa was a boda boda rider. He was shot while on an errand. "He told us he was going to the shop. A few minutes later, we saw police chasing him. Then we heard gunshots and saw his lifeless body," she told the Star. The second person was shot at Chebukube market and pronounced dead upon arrival at Khalaba Hospital. The demonstrators blocked Mumias Road using burning tyres while chanting anti-government songs. "We will not allow a police state. We will protest and call for secession unless President Uhuru Kenyatta's government dialogues with Raila," said a protester. Uhuru is leading in the vote count in the presidential rerun. Raila withdrew from the race. Raila has turned NASA into a resistance movement, and said he will not relent in the push for electoral reforms and a Kenya for all citizens enjoy. Earlier, the protesters marked buildings with the letter X, raising tension among residents. Occupants of one building that was marked asked police for security. "We didn't sleep the whole night because we feared our homes would be broken because we participated in the election," they said. Security officials had a rough time trying to contain demonstrators who retreated, but regrouped in a slum behind the bus terminus. Motorists paid between Sh50 and Sh200 to be allowed on the road. Businesses remained closed. County police boss Charles Munyoli said they made an unconfirmed number of arrests. "We have arrested people turning the protests into looting sprees," he said and warned youths saying they will ensure peace by all means. After voting on Thursday, former Governor Kenneth Lusaka said there weren't many voters as leaflets with threats were distributed earlier. The Senate speaker, who lost the governor seat for supporting President Uhuru Kenyatta, they said residents feared possible attacks. "We know leaflets which were dropped in the county two days to the election made people afraid. But they turned up in large numbers in some areas after we assured total security," he said.  