Nurses' union boss Seth Panyako has dismissed governors' report that 60 per cent of striking nurses are back to work. The secretary general said the health workers are going on with their industrial action that began on June 5. Panyako accused the government of attempting to sabotage the strike. "These people are attempting to scuttle and sabotage
our strike. But we are telling them we will not relent until our concerns
are addressed," he said. Council of Governors chairman Josphat Nanok on
Thursday released a report indicating the numbers of nurses who have resumed
work in counties. The Turkana county chief said only 40 per cent of the nurses were still on strike. "More than 60 per cent of the nurses countrywide are
now back to work and we expect more to resume." He said operations have resumed in hospitals in Embu, Nairobi, Mandera, Uasin Gishu, Nandi, Tharaka Nithi and
Bomet. Read: Nurses strike crumbling, Nanok says 60 per cent back to work But speaking to the Star on phone on Friday,
Panyako wondered how only seven of the 47 devolved units could employee 60 per
cent of all the nurses in the country as Nanok claimed. The KNUN official accused the chairman "spreading lies and rumors" instead of addressing nurses' demands as listed in their collective bargaining agreement. "We have 28,000 nurses in the public
service. Out of these, counties employ 25,000 while the rest work at KNH
and MTRH. So how can seven counties employee 60 per cent of the 25,000 nurses?
That is impossible." Panyako also downplayed reports of a split in the union, saying it is a fallacy and attempt by "a few individuals hell-bent on rocking the
union". A section of union members led by chairman John
Bii have been advocating against the strike and called for negotiations with the
government and the council. But the faction led by Panyako insists the strike will continue until their grievances are fully addressed. "I am the person in charge of the union's leadership...Bii is not part it. So there is no way Bii can claim to be speaking on behalf of, or even
telling nurses to go back to work." Last week, Bii petitioned the Labour court to jail
Panyako and four other officials for refusing to call off the strike.