Small-scale traders have asked the government to give them alternative packaging materials after plastic bags were banned in August. They say although they support the ban, finding an alternative has remained a tall order. The traders say failure to secure an alternative has left them staring at abject poverty. “We are ready for the ban, but let them show us the alternatives,” Moses Kamau, a small-scale pineapple and pawpaw vendor in Kangemi, told the Star yesterday. He sells sliced pineapples and pawpaws for between Sh10 and Sh20. Kamau said he is aware of the consequences if he is found packaging fruits in plastic bags, but he has to take the risk as he awaits an alternative. His plea comes a few days after the National Environment Management Authority announced the ban grace period had ended. On Friday, Nema director general Geoffrey Wahungu said the grace period had been extended for users, manufacturers and distributors. He said the grace period was also used to raise awareness. During the grace period, several arrests were made but culprits released with a warning. Kamau said Wahungu should “be made aware” that old newspapers cannot be used to wrap peeled pawpaws or pineapples. Wahungu last week acknowledged that although the ban “had substantively succeeded, dealing with small-scale traders remains a challenge.” Cereals trader Justice Mbae also said they do not have alternatives packaging bags. He has been a trader at Mountain View market for 15 years. Another cereals trader at Mountain View, Phylis Wanjiru, said 70 pieces of 1kg capacity bags are selling for Sh400. She said this is eating into their profits. Ruth Njoki, a greengrocer at Mountain View market, however said the ban is timely, considering the menace associated with plastics, especially when it rains. “I have stopped using banned plastics to use nets,” she said. Njoki said she also sells manila paper bags for Sh50 to her customers. The use of plastic bags was banned through a Gazette Notice on February 27. Alternatives are paper bags, clothing bags, canvas bags, sisal bags, papyrus bags or shoppers’ own bags. Manufacturers were given six months — until August 28 — to clear their stock. Non-recyclable plastic bags with handles or flat bags without handles are not allowed. Violating the new law attracts a fine of between Sh2 million and Sh4 million or a jail term of one to two years.      