The Election Laws (Amendment) Bill will not affect IEBC's preparations for the repeat election, Kipchumba Murkomen has said. The Elgeyo Marakwet Senator, who was part of the team that tabled the Bill in Parliament last week, asked IEBC to ignore the proposed changes and prepare adequately. "IEBC should prepare as though there are no amendments to the Elections Act. Ours is merely to give meaning to what they are already doing," he wrote on Twitter on Tuesday. "I want to assure IEBC that contrary to the perceptions out there, the Bill will not affect their preparations." Jubilee Party is behind a concerted bid to amend election laws before President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA chief Raila Odinga's re-run on October 26. The Election Laws (Amendment) and the Election Offences (Amendment) Bill, 2017 are before both Houses. On September 28, the National Assembly formed a select committee to spearhead the changes. The 15-member team will examine and undertake public participation on the Bill and other related ones. The decision was made last week as the House waited for NASA's minority side to appoint its six members. More on this: MPs form committee to handle election laws amendments Senate and National Assembly members have clashed over the publication of two Jubilee sponsored Bills targeting to amend the existing electoral laws. The proponents are citing the presence of gaps that saw Uhuru's re-election nullified by the Supreme Court on September 1. But National Super Alliance senators said the process is illegal, unprocedural and unparliamentary.  NASA senators said they will challenge the proposed amendments in court once Parliament passes them. Senators Moses Kajwang (Homa Bay), Mutula Kilonzo Jr (Makueni) and former Kakamega senator Boni Khalwale said the case will be hinged on the fact that the procedure is unconstitutional. Last week, the lawmakers said the process of both Houses forming two separate Select Committees to scrutinize the bills contradicting each other is unlawful. More on this: NASA to move to court if Jubilee passes election laws amendment Also read: Don't limit IEBC chair's powers, no need for more laws - Chebukati