Opposition leader Raila Odinga has launched a scathing attack on Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto for saying he is old and should retire. This was part of his address in tense Kawangware, Nairobi, where he went with other Opposition leaders on Sunday. "Ati Raila ni mzee...yule ambaye anasema Raila ni mzee...angalia akili ya mtu na sera zake. Sitastaafu kwa sababu Ruto amesema. Ntastaafu nikiamua," Raila said. This translates to: "That Raila is old...whoever is saying Raila is old...look at a person and his policies. I won't retire because [Deputy President William] Ruto said I should. I will when I decide to." Raila visited Kawangware because violence erupted over the presidential re-run that saw a man beaten to death. He decided not to face President Uhuru Kenyatta again over lack of reforms at IEBC and told his supporters to keep off voting centres. Millions heeded the call. Read: In edgy Kawangware, a rumour ends in fires and a death Raila said he will quit politics not because President Uhuru Kenyatta and Ruto have told him to but after uniting Kenyans and leading them to the 'promised land'. He earlier said he will not give up in this quest and that it was the reason he grew NASA into a national resistance movement. More on this: Raila transforms NASA into resistance movement, plans goods boycott The Opposition leader said: "Wachana na mambo ya umri wa mtu (Forget the issue of a person's age). There are young people with unsound minds who are leading the people. Nitastaafu nikipenda (I will retire when I please)." Raila said Jubilee is working so hard to cling to power and continue promoting tribalism. The National Super Alliance is the only outfit that will bring Kenyans solutions, he said. "With Jubilee Party, nothing will change. It will be the same old suffering. NASA will create job opportunities for the youth, a special fund to help mothers who are catering for their families, and end tribalism." At the same location earlier today, Raila warned Jubilee against militarising politics, saying a country cannot be led by the barrel of a gun. "Politics should be left to politicians and our security officers should keep off," he said He claimed the police brutality meted on citizens in NASA areas is retaliation by Jubilee for rejection by Kenyans. More on this: Kenyans can't be led with barrel of gun, Raila tells UhuRuto Read: NASA hired militia to block polls, Ruto tells CNN