Kenya private-sector activity deteriorated further in September, dropping to its lowest level since 2014, and falling below the threshold of 50 percent by almost 10 points. The Markit Stanbic Bank Kenya Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) released yesterday dropped to a new low of 40.9, meaning that the headline PMI has now recorded below the 50 no-change mark for five consecutive months, the longest period of decline observed in the survey's history. PMI is an indicator of the economic health of the manufacturing sector based on five major indicators which includes: new orders, inventory levels, production, supplier and the employment environment. The seasonally adjusted PMI has been operating below the 50 points line since May when it posted 49.9. In June, it dropped to 47.3 before gaining to settle at 48.1 in July. Last month, the country's PMI dropped to a low of 42 points. Private sector is considered to be performing better when PMI is above 50 points. Kenya's highest PMI of all times stands at 57. According to the report, the overall decline of the private sector was driven by sharp contractions in output and new orders, forcing firms to cut their payroll numbers, increasing the country's unemployment gap. The rate of inflation was modest despite accelerating slightly from the preceding month, resulting into in raw material prices for the private sector. The country's inflation slowed in July to hit 7.47, down from 9.21 in June, but moved upward last month to reach 8.04 per cent. The high inflation rate is attributed to slow production in the agricultural sector due to sustained period of dryness. In May, the country recorded the highest inflation rate of 11.7 per cent. Although firms faced higher cost burdens, they reportedly continued to offer discounts to stimulate demand amid competitive conditions. ''For the fifth consecutive month, conditions in Kenya's private sector continued to deteriorate which is reflective of the protracted political impasses in the country. Firms continue to bemoan the unavailability to access of credit which has been restrained as a consequence of the interest capping law,'' said regional economist for global markets at Stannic, Jibran Qureishi. He added that although the government had lowered the country's GDP growth to 5 per cent as expected, they still maintain their full year GDP estimates at 4.7 per cent, the expected bumper tea harvest in the fourth quarter not withstanding. ''Destocking was recorded for the third time in the past four months. Furthermore, the rate of reduction was sharp overall. Respondents reported that input stocks fell in line with weaker demand conditions and a sharp drop in purchasing activity,'' said Qureishi An average lead times continued to shorten during September, an aspect which analysts attributed to competition among suppliers.