Veteran journalist and Star Editor-in- Chief Charles Kerich, the Nairobi ICT executive nominee, yesterday promised to set up a data centre at City Hall for better services.  Speaking during vetting, he said this will ensure faster and seamless flow of information within departments, between the executive and assembly and between the county and the public. Kerich was among the last five nominees interviewed by the assembly appointments committee chaired by speaker Beatrice Elachi. Nominees Danvas Makori (Agriculture), Larry Wambua (Devolution), Janet Ouko (Education) and Mohamed Dagane (Transport) were also vetted.  Kerich, who is also the chairman of the Media Council of Kenya, promised to automate services, especially revenue collection.  “By automating all services in the county, everyone irrespective of their race, tribe or political affiliation will be served,” he said.   On revenue collection, Kerich said if approved, he would contract another company to assist in revenue collection, ensuring that all 122 revenue streams are automated.   “JamboPay is a good initiative, but they were only in charge of 14 revenue streams. With the automation of all the streams, I am not sure it can handle all of them,” he said.  Kerich, who has been in the media industry for 21 years, also proposed the assembly to consider a Right to Information Bill giving residents easy access to county information.  “This is a public institution, but you find that getting information from these officers is difficult. Officers only give information when they appear before committees and when under duress,” he said.   Agriculture CEC nominee was put to task to explain why his sector was relevant. Makori, who holds a doctorate in theology, said the sector is relevant but has not been given visibility. He said it is responsible for the food safety but has been given little attention and minimal funding. “This sector deals with food system, including production, transportation, inspection and consumption,” Makori said. He said urban agriculture constitutes 15 per cent of food consumed in the city. Makori promised to empower the youth to set up greenhouses. Ouko, the Education executive nominee, promised to introduce legislation making it mandatory for all children below 18 years to be enrolled in school. She also promised to source for partners and lobby for capitation grants to improve early childhood education.  “My plans will be to increase the number of schools for pupils with disabilities because there is only one such school in Kasarani,” she said. Wambua, the Devolution CEC nominee, said he would introduce “Banking Halls” (one-stop-shops for county services) in all the 17 subcounties to take services closer to the people.  Transport nominee Dagane had a hard time convincing the committee he is qualified after scoring C- but being admitted to a university in Uganda. He also did not have concrete solutions to traffic congestion. “What you are struggling to say is all in the Google. I can advise you to please take your time and do some research on this sector,” Elachi told the nominee. Elachi said the committee would retreat next week to come up with a report on the nominees, which they will table in the assembly for approval or otherwise.  