Increased cases
of industrial strikes mainly in the counties and the ongoing political differences
in the country have adversely affected production. This emerged
during the first day of the 21st annual Human Resource Management workshop
that is been held in Naivasha  According to Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui,
the current crisis by nurses was caused by demands that could easily be solved
through dialogue. He noted that the
health and education sectors had been adversely affected by the frequent industrial
unrest that had affected production and the image of the country. Speaking at
Sawela Lodge where the three day conference is going on, Kinyanjui expressed his
concern over the levels of qualification by some of those on strike. “We have seen
cases where some senior county staff had their tenures illegally extended and
nurses without qualifications employed and this was done by the human resources
department,” he said. Kinyanjui
challenged the Institute of Human Resource Management (IHRM) to work closely
with the council of governors as county governments had become playground for malpractices. The governor
noted that thousands of workers who were illegally employed by previous county governments
were on the verge of losing their jobs as they were not qualified. “We are asking the
Institute of Human Resource Management to develop laws that will protect county
government workers from facing the sack,” he said. Kinyanjui noted
that the current political temperature was not conducive for business and
challenged politicians to tone down their rhetoric.  On his part, the
national chairman IHRM Elijah Stimah noted that the industrial strikes mainly
at county levels had affected productivity. He said that human
resource officers had been trained and empowered to deal with the strikes
adding that county governments should go for professionals. “The current political
situation in the country has created anxiety and eroded donor confidence and
hence the need to seek for a lasting solution,” he said. The executive
director of the institute Dorcas Wainaina said that over 1,000 delegates drawn from
various parts of the country were attending the workshop. “We have automated
majority of our services so that we can reach more members and plans are underway
to retrain the over 25,000 practitioners in the human resource department,” she
said. Ends.  