After near blows with Opposition leaders on live television on Thursday, Kipchumba Murkomen has noted he fights with his brains. The Elgeyo Marakwet Senator was confronted by Mathare MP Anthony Oluoch and chased from a podium at Panafric hotel in Nairobi during the press conference. The leaders engaged in a scuffle and bitter exchange of words after Murkomen insinuated that NASA MPs were lying to Kenyans. He claimed that this was so yet he was going to buy tea for them, comments that seem to have angered the MPs who were at the premises. More on this: Tea bill ‘joke’ turns ugly as NASA, Jubilee MPs faceoff But via Twitter on Thursday night, Murkomen said he is a Kenyan who does not "engage in fist fights". "As a Christian, a patriot and a democrat, I don't engage in fist fights. I fight with my brains after which tea can be served," he said. His remark was not taken lightly by Kenyans on social media who castigated him. "Senator, you must admit that your statement was out of order. You don't gate-crash other people's presser then insult their leader and ridicule them," Collins Denmark said. "Even in using the brain, sanity and decency demand a little bit of decorum and humility. Be humble jatelo (leader)." Alex Ngari said: "How did the issue of paying bills become a matter of national importance? Were you being a gentleman by doing so?" "You are a Christian yet you're lying on a national TV live broadcast that you have paid NASA legislators' bills. Kuokoka kwako si ni kama mnyambo wa punda (Your salvation is like the fart of a donkey)," Collins Junior said. Davido Otieno said: "You fight with your mouth. Which brain are you talking about? In most cases, you don't engage your brains before engaging your mouth." "Wachana tu na chai (Let go of tea), it almost got you killed. Chai tuwachie watu wa Kakamega (Let's leave tea to the people of Kakamega)," Elaine Mashisia‏ said. Simba Hasheem‏ noted: "You don't need to be a non-Christian to engage in fights. You could have said it this way: As human, upright and law abiding citizen...a patriot." "It's only a fool who keeps appearing on media for all the wrong reasons. And soon Murkomen will join the likes of [Gatundu South MP Moses] Kuria and [Embakasi East MP] Babu [Owino]," Dave Were said. Tuliapong Musto said: "You did well, Senator. I wonder, if a Member of Parliament wants to fight in front of cameras, what about a poor, unemployed youth in Kisumu and Kibra?" Fred Mundia wrote: "I've never seen you using your brains before. People of the same profession as yours use their brains in the courtroom. Wewe bado unang'ang'ana na sisi kwa social media (You are still struggling with us on social media." But others congratulated the Senator for being mature and not fighting back. "Fist fighting is barbaric and wouldn't have solved a thing. That's not what leaders model for their followers. Thank you for showing a high level of maturity. At this point we need it as a country," Liza Njeri said. Murkomen also had a brief exchange with musician Suzanna Owiyo over the scuffle and remarks. Owiyo tweeted: "I have a lot of respect for Hon [Nairobi Senator Johnson] Sakaja but Murkomen! Such a disappointment. Lying on national TV...very low of him." Murkomen tweeted back: "I have a lot of respect for you, madam. I love your music and I want to engage with you on matters music only. Thank you" But the musician seemed to have the last word, telling him: "I appreciate you for being a fan. However, my music does not limit me to not talk on matters politics."