Malaria deaths in Baringo have risen to 27, MCAs have said, but the county say it is aware of only four. The numbers were given to the county assembly by MCAs who reported the deaths from their wards. Other reports place the Baringo and Marsabit malaria deaths total at 30 in the past week. In Baringo, fifteen people have died in Tirioko since the outbreak was reported on September 28, MCAs said. Tirioko MCA Samwel Lokales asked the county for emergency intervention to prevent more deaths. Nine people, among them women and children, died in Silale while three other children died at the Kolowa dispensary on Monday, MCAs said. “More than 2,000 people have been treated and discharged in open-air clinics but more needs to be done because people are dying,” Lokales told the assembly on Thursday. The clinics were organised by the Kenya Red Cross and health officers from Tiaty subcounty. Worst affected villages include Akoret, Kapau, Kongor, Ruttu, Kulal, Lokis, Korelach, Chesetim and Ng’aina. “We received and tested over 80 patients. About 20 were in critical need of donated blood, which we don’t have at the moment,” Tiaty public health director Joseph Nakopir told the Star on phone. He said on Thursday they asked for blood supplies from Nakuru General Hospital and Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret. Addressing the press on Thursday, Governor Stanley Kiptis confirmed the outbreak but said the death toll was exaggerated. “We are only aware of four cases recorded by our health officers,” Kiptis said. On Friday MCAs toured malaria hotspots to determine the magnitude of the outbreak. “I hereby direct the health committee to ascertain the magnitude of the deaths and assist in making recommendations on way forward,” Deputy Speaker Ameja Zelemoi said. The report is to be tabled before the house on Tuesday next week. Zelemoi said the report will guide them on whether to order an extensive investigation on the extent of malaria spread.  He said several other wards had reported cases but no deaths.