Opposition leader Raila Odinga has not responded to Jubilee’s application seeking to cite him for contempt, following his withdrawal from the presidential rerun. Jubilee wants Raila and his NASA running mate Kalonzo Musyoka sent to civil jail. Supreme Court Deputy Registrar Daniel ole Keiwua has placed the file before Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu, who is expected to form a bench that will hear the case — probably next week. When parties appeared before the registrar for direction on Friday, they were informed that Raila and Kalonzo Musyoka were yet to enter appearance in the suit or file any response. It emerged the NASA leaders have  not appointed lawyers to represent them in the contempt proceedings filed last week. The IEBC and chairman Wafula Chebukati in their replies told the court they were busy preparing for the repeat polls held on Thursday. Raila boycotted the fresh polls and asked his supporters not to vote. Many voters, especially in Nyanza, did not vote. They blocked IEBC officials from conducting the election. In the application, Jubilee says the action by the opposition leaders is unlawful and they should be punished for defying the Supreme Court order directing fresh polls to be conducted. They accuse the opposition leaders of obstruction and blocking their agents from training, particularly in Nyanza.  In support of the suit, Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju says in an affidavit Raila and Kalonzo have engaged in “illegal, unlawful and disrespectful” conduct. Tuju says their actions are aimed at thwarting compliance with the  orders directing fresh elections be held within 60 days of September 1.  That’s when the court voided President Uhuru Kenyatta’s victory on August 8. He says the opposition has conducted itself “maliciously” and without regard to the rule of law and sanctity of the judicial process. “The applicant is apprehensive they [NASA leaders] will continue actions aimed at ensuring the orders of this honourable court are not implemented and [will] irreparably prejudice the other candidates in this matter and the people of Kenya as a whole,” Tuju says.