Use of animals by cosmetic manufacturers to test their products is yet to be reported in Kenya, a conference on animal welfare was told yesterday. Mount Kenya University department of animal health and production head Dr Maina Ngotho said despite lack of adequate information, he is not aware of such tests being codducted locally. “I must admit we still do not know who does research using animals,” he said at the Unep headquarters in Gigiri. Ngotho said the 2014 guidelines were only put in place to allow the National Commission for Science, Technology and Innovation - the custodian of science and research - to bring on board players. Cosmetic companies in many parts of the world use animals to test their cosmetics. According to Humane Society International, approximately 100,000 to 200,000 animals globally suffer and die from cosmetic tests every year around the world. They include rabbits, guinea pigs, hamsters, rats and mice. While dogs and monkeys are never used to test cosmetics anywhere in the world, they are used to test other types of chemicals. Typically, animal tests for cosmetics include skin and eye irritation tests where chemicals are rubbed onto the shaved skin or dripped into the eyes of rabbits. This could be done for weeks or months to look for signs of general illness or specific health hazards, including cancer or birth defects and even widely condemned “lethal dose” tests in which animals are forced to swallow massive amounts of a test chemical to determine the dose that causes death. These tests can cause considerable pain and distress, including blindness, swollen eyes, sore bleeding skin, internal bleeding and organ damage, birth defects, convulsions and death. Pain relief is not provided and at the end of a test the animals are killed, normally by asphyxiation, neck-breaking or decapitation. Ngotho said there should be ethics applied to the way animals are handled. Kenya Veterinary Board chair man Mwenda Mbaka said there has been an improvement in how Kenyans handle animals.