DP William Ruto’s home constituency of Turbo in Uasin Gishu county recorded the lowest voter turnout in the North Rift during last Thursday’s repeat presidential election. The constituency has 110,857 registered voters, but only 55,372 turned up, representing 49 per cent. Ruto voted at Kosachei Primary School in the constituency. Other constituencies in Uasin Gishu recorded more than 50 per cent turnout. In Soy constituency, there was a 62 per cent voter turnout. Ainabkoi had 64 per cent and Kapseret recorded 54 per cent voter turnout. “We expected a higher turnout, but heavy rains, fatigue among voters and closure of schools may have affected the process,” Uasin Gishu Senator Margaret Kamar said. She read a statement from leaders in the region on Saturday. Elgeyo Marakwet county had the highest voter turnout in the election. The county recorded a 70 per cent turnout.  Nandi county recorded 65 per cent, while Uasin Gishu had 60 per cent voter turnout. Most constituencies in Nandi and Elgeyo Marakwet scored a turnout of between 50 and 70 per cent. Other constituency results indicated that Marakwet West had 71 per cent turnout, Aldai 78 per cent, while Tinderet had 80 per cent. Tiaty had 48 per cent voter turnout, while Marakwet East had 78 per cent. The low voter turnout in most parts of Rift Valley surprised Jubilee leaders.  But they said the votes were enough to give President Uhuru Kenyatta victory. “Thursday’s voter turnout was lower compared to the August 8 General Election,” Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago said on Friday. Mandago, who led Jubilee campaigns in the region, said although they anticipated a high turnout, most areas recorded 50 to 60 per cent. “Many voters seemed tired with the move to repeat the election, but we are happy what we got will give Uhuru the win to go back to State House,” he said. He said democracy is about the majority having their way and clearly President Kenyatta had a majority of Kenyans on his side. Mandago also denied the election had caused a major split among Kenyans, saying it was about a political contest, not unity. “Kenyans are united and Jubilee remains the majority party in the country. We now need to move on as a country,” he said. He said it was not Jubilee’s fault that some Kenyans decided to boycott the polls after the Supreme Court ruled that there should be a repeat election. Governors Alex Tolgos of Elgeyo Marakwet and Stephen Sang of Nandi said they were satisfied with the turnout. “There are so many factors that can lead to such a turnout, but in general, we are happy that everything went on peacefully,” he said. Heavy rains and fear were also blamed for a lower turnout. IEBC officials said they were happy that voting and tallying was peaceful.  “We had no incidents reported and we can say the process was smooth,”Uasin Gishu returning officer Jacktonne Nyonje said.