There are fears of retaliatory attacks in Baringo North after suspected Tugen bandits shot dead a Pokot boy at Kapturo on Saturday. Seventeen-year-old Biwott Lokerobos, a standard eight candidate at Kapturo Primary School, was killed on his way home in Tiaty subcounty. Resident Richard Lotoiyo said he was at Kapturo trading centre at the time he heard gunshots about 50 metres away.  He and a group of youths went to find out what was happening. “We found the body of the boy lying in a pool of blood with a bullet wound in the back of his head,” Lotoiyo said. Lokerobos’s father, Naturo, said his son lived with his grandmother at Kapturo.  went to visit siblings “I had released him to go and greet his siblings back in our Tiaty home over the weekend when he met his death,” he said. Ng’orora chief Peter Yator confirmed the incident, adding police have launched investigations. The body was taken to the Baringo County Referral Hospital mortuary. Residents from the Tugen and Pokot communities nearly clashed on Sunday over the incident, but Yator said the situation is under control. He said there has been peace since May. Ng’orora chief Thomas Ruttok was shot dead by suspected armed Pokot bandits on February 24. The incident involving Lokerobo appered to be a retaliatory attack after suspected armed Pokot bandits laid an ambush, killing a Tugen national police reservist at Barantany near Bartabwa, on the border of Tiaty and Baringo North subcounty on Monday last week.  The victim, Cheptirim Tomunyo, was harvesting honey from his beehive in the company of his colleague Jackson Katikit, who escaped narrowly. The bandits were hiding in the bush, planning to attack the Tugen bordering Baringo North.  Reached for comment over the killing, Baringo police commander Small Munyanzia referred journalists to the Baringo North OCPD Chemongis Ndiema, but he refused to talk to the media. “The orders to speak to the media should come to me directly from the police commander, not from you journalists,” Chemongis said.