World Half Marathon record holder Joyciline Jepkosgei has attributed her success on the road to hard work in training for a period spanning over eight years. Joyciline shuttered six world records this year alone, with many athletics fans eager to know her background in what seems to be a case of overnight success. Earlier this month, she lowered her world half marathon record to 64:51 at the Valencia Half Marathon in Spain after clocking 64:52 in April for the world mark at the Sportisimo Prague Half Marathon. Enroute to setting the world mark in Prague, she broke the 10km (30:05), 15km (45:37) and 20Km (61:25) marks before setting another 10km world record last month in Prague at 29:43. “For those who have been asking about Joyciline, the athlete has been performing well for many years. It is now over five years since she started professional training,” said her husband-coach Nicholas Koech. He said her work has only been focused on training without involving herself with house chores or other similar duties. “We only focused on training and not overwhelming her with any other duties. That is why she has been performing very well since she has a settled mind,” Koech added. Koech said they moved to Iten in 2013 for further training at the high altitude region. “I did a lot of work in order for her to attain the form she is enjoying at the moment. It was through a rigorous training programme and pushing her to adhere to it,” he revealed. Joyciline, who is a Kenya Defence Forces officer, started her running career while at primary school before actively participating at the secondary level where she won a number of races. In 2007, while in form two at Cheptil High School, she won the cross country title barefooted proceeding to the nationals where she also prevailed. “My athletic career and success is a culmination of many years of hard work and perseverance. I started running while at school and I won several races before turning professional,” said Joyciline during her homecoming ceremony in Iten yesterday. Locally, Joyciline came fourth at the 2014 Standard Chartered Half marathon before finishing second at the First Lady Half Marathon an year later. She won 2016 Ziwa farmers 10km race and settled for second at the Family Bank Half Marathon.