 Jubilee Party is executing two parallel schemes to avert a constitutional crisis and legitimise a second term for President Uhuru Kenyatta should NASA leader Raila Odinga boycott the repeat polls. The party through the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, wants to force Raila to put it in writing if he wants to withdraw from the race. The ex-Prime Minister, who successfully petitioned against Uhuru’s win in the August election, has threatened a no election on October 26. Fears that Raila could silently withdraw from the repeat presidential election to delegitimise the whole process and deny Uhuru the global legitimacy to rule have thrown Jubilee spanners in the works. The party now wants Raila to make a formal and written withdrawal application to the IEBC in what is seen as a strategy to ring-fence Uhuru’s mandate after the October 26, if Raila makes good his boycott threat. Raila has submitted to the IEBC an array of electoral reform demands he wants implemented as part of the irreducible minimums for him to participate in the election. The IEBC authority has dismissed some of the demands as too unrealistic. The commission has said they are ready to dialogue and build consensus on some on them.  Jubilee has proposed changes to the Election laws to allow the IEBC to call off the repeat presidential election and declare Uhuru President-elect if Raila officially pulls out. “Where there are more than two remaining candidates in the election after the withdrawal, the election shall proceed as scheduled…where only one candidate remains after the withdrawal, the remaining candidate shall be declared elected forthwith as president-elect without any election being held,” reads the amendment. Jubilee, which enjoys an outright majority in the bicameral Parliament, is pushing to bulldoze the far-reaching amendments to cure the uncertainty so Uhuru remains legally in office for a second term without Kenyans going to the ballot. This will only happens if Raila writes to the IEBC formally to withdraw his candidature. The joint select committee yesterday started collecting public views on the proposed radical changes to the Election Laws in what signalled Jubilee’s tough stance to seal what the President has termed as “electoral mismanagement loopholes.” The president’s party is employing another plot to force Raila to participate in the repeat presidential under the Jubilee-authored laws, which NASA argue would aid another election rigging in favour of Uhuru. Through Pokot South MP David Pkosing, Jubilee has moved to court to compel Raila to participate in the presidential rerun. If Raila does not withdraw formally but maintains his no election threat, then the MP wants this declared as acts of treason punishable by death. Jubilee is concerned that Raila may mobilise his supporters to disrupt the election in some areas to deny the polls the requisite constitutional threshold. The Constitution requires that a presidential election must be conducted in each constituency.