NASA politicians have dared IEBC to declare Uhuru Kenyatta and his running mate William Ruto as president elect. The politicians on Saturday said if the commission dares to declare the duo as president elect, they will go ahead and swear in their party leader Raila Odinga as president. Led by Siaya senator James Orengo and former Machakos Senator Johson Muthama, the politicians said they do not recognize Uhuru Kenyatta as the President of Kenya. Addressing the public at Athi River town in Mavoko, Machakos County, the politicians maintained Raila remains the people's president. Mavoko MP Patrick Makau, former Kakamega senator Bonny Khalwale and MCAs Daniel Mbevi (Mlolongo) and Robert Kisini (Athi River) wards were also present. “We will use August 8 results to swear NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga if Uhuru Kenyatta tries to use October 26 poll results to be sworn in,” said Orengo. He said, "Sisi hatumtambui Uhuru kama Rais wa Kenya na NASA pia haimtambui, sheria inasema serikali ya Kenya itaundwa kikatiba. It is our decision that Uhuru cannot use the October 26 election results to be sworn in, that will be an act of treason”. Orengo said their leads from the region had indicated the purpoted votes Uhuru got in the repeat election were cooked up figures. “The executive authority of Republic of Kenya is with the people of Kenya, the constitution says you have the sovereign authority. Uhuru does not have sovereign authority, you people have,” Orengo said. He said Kenyans can execute the powers either directly or indirectly constitutionally. “We must get our country back, tumeanza safari sasa. Former President Daniel Moi said Kenya is a unitary state but later agreed that we have multiparty after Raila Odinga fought for it," he said. “Raila Odinga alipambana na Kenyatta wa kwanza mpaka akafa, Moi alienda nyumbani baada ya kufunga Raila, Kibaki joked with Raila and he went home, Uhuru Kenyatta will go home and Raila Odinga will come to be the President of Kenya,” said Orengo. He said from Monday, the nation will go in a way president Uhuru Kenyatta has never known. This comes as leaders from other quarters especially those affiliated to Jubilee party continue to mount pressure on IEBC to declare Uhuru president elect. A section of Jubilee MP's from Nakuru had said IEBC should not delay announcement of the results after they suspended voting in areas that experienced violence. Their sentiment were echoed by West Pokot governor John Lonyangapuo who said since the main competitor against Uhuru had withdrawn from the race and polls suspended in his stronghold, the commission should proceed and declare Uhuru the winner. Lonyangapuo said as it stands it is evident the other candidates are way far below. Related: 'Uhuru got all votes': Alice Wahome dismisses results change claims                