Struggling local retailers are headed for even tougher times as international players angle to start dominating the Kenyan market.  On Monday, Botswana retailer Choppies announced plans to open 40 more stores in Africa including Kenya at the tune of Sh29 billion by mid next year. Just like Choppies, Carrefour, a French multinational retailer, is taking Kenya by storm, further complicating matters for local retailers like Nakumatt and Uchumi who are currently drowning in debt. Choppies CEO Ramachandran Ottapathu told Reuters it will enter Namibia before December and expand its presence in South Africa, Kenya, Tanzania and Zambia. The retailer, which initially took over seven Ukwala stores in early 2016, has since spread across the country, opening branches in Nairobi, Nakuru, Kericho, Kisumu, Bungoma and Kisii in a span of less than a year. Choppies, with a strong presence in South Africa, Botswana, Zambia, Tanzania, Zimbabwe and Mozambique, says it is employing affordability and provision of a wide variety of goods to customers as main strategies to drive its success in Kenya. “We have carefully studied this market. Kenya has a huge retail business potential. There is no doubt Choppies is going to thrive,” said Evelyne Omondi, the marketing manager. The last couple of years have been turbulent for key supermarkets in the country, with Uchumi and Nakumatt, once seen as a beacon of success of the retail business in East Africa, virtually collapsing. The latter is now said to be in talks with Tuskys for a possible merger. The near-death of the two chains offer critical lessons to the sector. “We have to constantly scan the market for it is very dynamic. This is why we have made substantial investments in our research department which offers guidance on our day-to-day operations,” said Omondi. Choppies, in its expansion plan, says it will be entering those markets already with supermarkets as well as green fields. This, the chain says, will enable all Kenyans to access their goods without much of a struggle. “Our customers are Choppies ambassadors; we have to serve them well. A satisfied customer is the best business strategy of all,” she said. Careffour was quick to take up space left by Nakumatt at the Thika Road Mall (TRM), pushing its branches in Nairobi to three. It has other branches at the prestigious Two Rivers Mall and The Hub Karen. Other international retailers scrambling for a slice of the Kenyan market includes the US-based Woolworth which is targeting high-end malls in Nairobi including Sarit Centre and Garden City.