Senator Moses Wetang'ula is to blame for election chaos that have hit Bungoma for the past two days, Jubilee leaders in the county have said. John Waluke (Sirisia), Dan Wanyama (Webuye West) and Mwambu Mabonga (Bumula) claimed to have credible information that Wetang'ula paid youths to cause chaos and destroy property. "Bungoma had been peaceful and residents never participated in anti-IEBC protests. Why now yet Bungoma voted in the just concluded polls?" asked Waluke. He said the NASA principal and Ford Kenya leader, and Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi were seen in Bungoma town during demonstrations on Friday. Two people were shot dead by police during the protests. More on this:  Two shot dead as election tension increases in Bungoma Also read: Wetang'ula fires up Bungoma NASA supporters after deadly protests Waluke asked Wetang'ula to call for peace instead. "It is surprising that instead of participating in development, he is busy inciting youths to violence," he told the press in their address in Bungoma town on Saturday. Wanyama said the Senator tried to incite youths for assurance of the minority seat in Parliament . "We are aware there is pressure for him to be replaced as minority leader and that he has resorted to engaging in that so he can be viewed as a strong supporter of Raila." The lawmaker asked youths to shun violence and live in harmony . "I am calling on the youths to be peaceful and engage in activities such as those of the National Youth Service." Mabonga wondered why Wetang'ula addressed youths in Bungoma town but failed to call for peace. Reached for comment, Wetang'ula denied the allegations said the riots were spontaneous. "Kenyans are rebelling against the dictatorial Jubilee regime," he told The Star by phone on Saturday. "Bungoma youths reacted to police brutality after the killing of two Innocent people. If fighting for the rights of my people is inciting them then so be it. There is nothing wrong with picketing as it is legal. Police should not use excessive force." Also read: Fear in Bungoma as houses marked after election, police alert