Lecturers have once again threatened to strike at the end of the month to push for the full implementation of their 2013-17 CBA. This will be the second time the dons will be striking over delayed implementation of the CBA. Their first time was in July. They signed a deal in March after a 54-day strike and the government allocated them Sh10 billion. The amount was meant to cater for salary adjustments for the more than 30,000 public university staff in three unions. A total of Sh6 billion was for a 17.5 per cent increase on basic salary and 3.2 per cent raise on house allowance for 9,000 lecturers and professors. The remaining Sh4 billion was shared by staff allied to the Kenya University Staff Union and Kenya Union of Domestic Hotels, Educational Institutions, Hospitals and Allied Workers. Universities Academic Staff Union secretary general Constantine Wasonga yesterday said universities used the funds to offset accrued arrears between July 1, 2013 and June 30 this year, then reverted to the old rates. He said only five universities have been paying salaries under the new CBA, but they are now threatening to go back to the old rates, because they cannot sustain the payrolls. They are Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology, Jaramogi Oginga Odinga University of Science and Technology, Karatina University, Chuka University and Machakos University. On Tuesday, Wasonga issued a 21-day strike notice to council chairmen in 31 universities. He warned that lecturers will down their tools on October 31 to force them to pay salaries under new rates. “You are categorically and unequivocally informed that all our members in all the public universities and their constituent colleges shall withdraw their labour and shall not resume normal duty until the 2013-17 CBA is fully implemented.” Yesterday, Wasonga blamed the non-implementation of the CBA on government disbursing capitation funds based on the old CBA. Wasonga singled out the University of Nairobi for late payment of lecturers’ over delayed release of capitation. “We want our members to be paid on time. I have seen them write to our members twice, informing them that salaries will delay. Let them request that capitation in advance,” Wasonga said.