Agricultural Settlement Fund Trustees under the Ministry of Land, Housing and Urban Development did not account for close to Sh10 billion. In a report fort the year ended June 30,2016, tabled in the parliament early this month, Auditor General Edward Ouko detailed the department’s financial statement for the year under review, putting to doubt the management of the fund. For instance, Sh6.2 billion non-current assets could not be traced in the department’s financial statement. It says although the financial statement for the year reflects a balance of Sh7.4 billion, schedules for land and buildings and fixed and loose assets amounting to Sh6,176,800,380 and Sh38,680,431 respectively were not availed for audit review “It has not been possible to confirm whether the fixed asset balance of Sh7,432,878,660 included in the financial statement is fairly stated,’’ said Ouko. Furthermore, the ministry did not avail supporting schedules for its non-exchange transactions balance of Sh784.3 million, putting to doubt Sh3.6 billion listed as current receivables as was the case the previous year. The balance was arrived at after setting off the total credit balance of Sh2.8 billion. The auditor general also noted discrepancies in trade and other payables from exchange transactions amounting to Sh14.2 million. ‘’In the absence of supporting schedules and analysis, it is not possible to ascertain the existence, accuracy and validity of these balances for trade and other payables from exchange transactions amounting to Sh14,285,401,’’ the opinion says. He found out that the body did not avail its approved budget for audit in the year under review while the financial statement prepared did not include the statement of comparison of budget and actual amounts as required by the state. “I have not been able to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to provide a basis for an audit opinion. Accordingly, I do not express an opinion on the financial statement,’’ he said in the report. Agricultural Settlement Fund (ASF) ascertains land rights and interests through land consolidation and adjudication and settle poor landless Kenyans. Others are administration of group ranches and arbitration of land disputes.      