Jubilee leaders in Bungoma have blamed low voter turnout during Thursday’s presidential rerun on scare leaflets warning people not to vote. NASA leader Raila Odinga called for all supporters to boycott the rerun, saying it was rigged and the IEBC had not met reform demands. Led by Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka, the leaders on Friday said most people failed to vote for fear of being attacked. The ‘No Reforms, No Election’ leaflets had been circulated in major towns of Webuye, Kimilili, Chwele and Bungoma.  Lusaka said, however, he was impressed with how residents in the county’s nine constituencies still came out to vote, though not in big numbers. The former governor spoke on Thursday after casting his vote at Mapela Primary School. “We know the leaflets, which were dropped in the county two days to the election made people fear. In some areas, voters turned up in large numbers after we assured them of security,” Lusaka said. By the close of voting, President Uhuru Kenyatta had won only 204 votes of the possible 774 at the polling station where Lusaka voted. Sirisia MP John Waluke said voting went on in all polling centres without disruption. He said NASA had failed to convince people not to vote. Waluke, the county Jubilee chairman, spoke after voting at Yebeko Primary School. He said voting was also going on in Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula’s backyard. “Wetang’ula is a NASA co-principal, but in his polling station, voting is going on,” Waluke said. Wetang’ula had urged residents not to participate in the election. Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa said voters were electing Uhuru. He spoke after voting in Kimilili. Webuye West MP Dan Wanyama said the repeat election would end the nation’s political standoff. He said those who turned out to vote had shown that Kenya was bigger than an individual. Wanyama spoke after voting at Chebosi Primary School. He said Bungoma people had “shamed the NASA team. They have been saying that Bungoma is a NASA zone, but people are voting, despite threats.”   Kanduyi MP Alfred Khang’ati said the Mulembe nation will be part of the next government.  On Thursday night, police in Bungoma town fired in the air to disperse protesters who tried to burn tyres and hold demonstrations.