The IEBC yesterday kept mum over the fate of the four counties in Nyanza where the repeat presidential election was called off. On October 26, IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati (pictured) called off voting in Siaya, Kisumu, Migori and Homa Bay counties after unruly youths barricaded roads, lit bonfires blocking election materials from reaching polling stations.  The poll were rescheduled to October 27, but was again postponed indefinitely by the commission. On Saturday, Chebukati promised to give the way forward yesterday. “When the lives of our officers are in danger, we’re deeply concerned. The commission has deliberated on the incidences happening in parts of the country and has postponed the election to a date to be announced later,” Chebukati said on Saturday. Yesterday, IEBC kept mum on the issue. The commissioners were held up by the verification of results. By 7pm, it had received results from 256 constituencies. The commission was optimistic of concluding the verification by 8pm yesterday. According to IEBC sources, commissioners were then to retreat to deliberate and decide whether to announce results without conducting election in the four counties. “If the commissioners agree to declare results then we expect to have the announcement tomorrow (today) and in case they agree to have the poll then it must be held on Tuesday ahead of the seven-day deadline for results declaration,” a senior IEBC official told the Star. The KCPE national examinations which begin tomorrow presents another challenge to the commission, as most of the gazetted polling stations are located in primary schools. The exclusion of the Nyanza counties, the source intimated to Star, might give fodder to anyone challenging the legality of the polls, a situation the commission is keenly trying to avoid. Article 138 (2), of the Constitution states that, ‘If two or more candidates for President are nominated, an election shall be held in each constituency.” By the time of going to press, President Uhuru Kenyatta had an unassailable lead with 7,160,140 votes and NASA leader Raila Odinga was second with 67,765 votes from the 244 constituencies verified out of the 256. Raila withdrew from the race three weeks ago.