Jubilee’s ‘tyranny of numbers’ — the cynical propaganda coined in 2013 to justify crude ethnicity-driven electoral fraud and mockery of democracy — has been busted. Out of desperation, Jubilee pushed for the unconstitutional October 26 repeat presidential election, only for their ‘numbers’ to turn out to be a lie. They cannot explain voter turnouts of as little as one per cent in some areas and an average of less than 35 per cent countrywide, despite expensive nationwide campaigns and widespread ballot-stuffing and inflation of figures in opposition strongholds. It is turning out that the ‘tyranny of numbers’ was actually ‘tyranny of rigging’. However one looks at the repeat election, it has vindicated the opposition leadership and exposed the deception, lack of support and hitherto speculated massive unpopularity of Jubilee. It should also teach the election observer missions and Western diplomatic community in Nairobi to be wary of the emerging rogue dictatorship that has been manipulating them through fake news and deliberate misinformation. All the while destroying democracy, clawing back on the gains made in constitutional reforms and resorting to human rights violations, torture and repression. Though there are strong indications the actual turnout never reached four million votes countrywide, even the suspect seven million votes announced by the IEBC have shown the majority of Kenyans heeded the boycott call by the NASA leadership after it withdrew the candidature of Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka. More than ever before, Kenyans, and the world, have seen for themselves the clearest evidence of the often-decried political fraud that is the UhuRuto regime, which only accommodates and serves two communities at the exclusion of all others. Outside the two communities the turnout was pathetic. There was widespread rejection of the contaminated poll in virtually all the counties at the Coast, Ukambani, Maasailand, Gusiiland, Western, North Rift and Northeastern. If one were to do a little ethnic arithmetic, the UhuRuto regime got endorsement in just about five out of Kenya’s 44 ethnic communities. Numbers do not lie! The biggest scandal in the whole saga is that in the run-up to the election, Jubilee had rolled out a massive campaign to sway the opposition-leaning communities. Massive state resources were thrown around with abandon to all manner of defectors, led by self-declared community elders, suspect women’s and youth groups and opportunistic opposition politicians who had lost in the August 8 General Election. The billions of taxpayer shillings poured into this yielded the exact opposite in key regions, where voters simply kept away from polling stations. Reports of pro-opposition militia being used to block voters or to stop election officials from distributing materials is just escapist Jubilee propaganda. No such incidents were reported in Nairobi, Gusiiland, Coast, Ukambani, Western, Upper North Rift, Maasailand or Northeastern. People just kept away. Put into context, the cases of youths engaging riot police in running battles on Election Day were not widespread. They only involved provoked youths who were opposed to holding an unconstitutional election in their backyards. The Constitution tasks every citizen to uphold it at all times. Part of upholding it is active opposition to commission of illegalities within your environs. Witnessing the commission of illegalities and doing nothing about it is tantamount to one being an accomplice to the crimes. Some youth peacefully turned out to demonstrate against the election, only for trigger-happy riot police and suspected pro-Jubilee militia to turn on them with truncheons, bullets and boots, brutally killing some. The youths throwing stones in defence and barricading roads to block the murderous police and Mungiki thugs from spreading mayhem cannot be demonised as pro-opposition violence. That was self-defense, a natural instinct. This development clearly justifies the opposition’s calls for a fresh and proper election in 90 days. For those who have all along doubted our warnings that Jubilee has divided the country deeply and only a free and fair election will fast-track healing through a constitutional regime change, this evidence should convince you.   ODM national treasurer and former Kitutu Masaba MP