Around 2,000 Kisumu residents marched along major streets on Tuesday, repeating their leader Raila Odinga's call against the presidential vote. Some went to IEBC's office while others converged at the main bus terminus and said they would join the rest there. Police were not seen despite security concerns by residents and leaders who said they needed protection.  Kisumu Governor Anyang' Nyong'o leads NASA supporters in a peaceful march against IEBC, October 24, 2017. /FAITH MATETE The peaceful march saw residents dance to the 'Mambo yabadilika (Things are changing)' tune, often played at NASA rallies, wave twigs and blow whistles. But business people kept their doors locked in the town centre. Among leaders who took part in the protest were Governor Anyang' Nyong'o, DG Mathews Owili, Kisumu Central MP Fred Outa and several ward representatives.  Supporters of the National Super Alliance during a peaceful march to the IEBC's office, October 24, 2017. /FAITH MATETE Nyongo noted he has been in the struggle for the second liberation for 37 years and will not give up as the demonstrations will result in change. County assembly speaker Onyango Oloo said: "I want to make it clear...the people have decided...they are capable and ready to continue with the fight. "We will will continue with the fight until the necessary reforms are implemented. No amount of killing of Luos will make us surrender our quest."  Supporters of the National Super Alliance during a peaceful march to the IEBC's office, October 24, 2017. /FAITH MATETE Raila clarified earlier today that he does not want his supporters to take to the streets on Thursday. He asked them to stay at home and not vote because his repeat race against President Uhuru Kenyatta will not be fair. Read: Stay at home on Thursday, don't protest, Raila tells supporters IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati said he cannot guarantee a credible election but made requests such as for those accused of bungling the August 8 vote to resign. More on this: It's hard to guarantee free election, IEBC won't tolerate threats - Chebukati  Supporters of the National Super Alliance during a peaceful march to the IEBC's office, October 24, 2017. /FAITH MATETE Market trader James Ouma, who was among the demonstrators, told Reuters: "All we know is that there will be no elections. As to how this will be done, we are waiting for the big announcement by Baba (Raila) tomorrow." The government and IEBC have said the vote will go ahead irrespective of whether Raila contests.