Police have banned NASA’s anti-IEBC protests in Mombasa because President Uhuru Kenyatta is in town. But NASA CEO Norman Magaya has said they will storm the street because it is their constitutional right. The previous two demonstrations in Mombasa have been extremely peaceful. Mombasa Urban police Lucas Ogara said demonstrators should keep off streets or face brutal force. “We will not allow. They will not do it here. Tomorrow we don’t need any demonstration when we have the President here,” he said. Police are fond of using batons and gun buts to hit protesters. Water cannons, teargas and rubbers bullets, sometimes live to instil fear during demonstrations.  One person has died since the nationwide protests begun. Magaya said police reasoning is gibberish. “If they will attempt [to ban the demo], it will be illegal, police have no powers under the law to outlaw demonstrations, neither do they have powers to permit a demonstration. They only need notification to provide security,” he said by phone on Sunday.  He said police have become part of the dictatorial government “We will resist, reject and go ahead with our demonstrations,” he said. Read: One dies in NASA demo as principals stay away NASA called for bi-weekly protests on Monday and Friday to force IEBC CEO Ezra Chiloba from office. The street protests are also to force parliament not to adopt changes to election law (amendments) bill 2017, election offences act and IEBC act. The Opposition also wants its irreducible minimums applied by IEBC. The preconditions are for purposes of a credible fresh presidential election according to NASA. The conditions cover procurement of election materials, transparent use of and access to ICT and replacement of irredeemable personnel who abetted electoral fraud. NASA wants gazettement of polling stations and live media coverage of results declaration at the 290 constituency tallying centres. “Our irreducible demands are not impossibilities,” NASA co-principal Musalia Mudavadi. Magaya said Uhuru will not hold Kenya at ransom. “Kenya does not belong to Uhuru Kenyatta. We will continue with our programmes as earlier announced,” he said. The CEO said they are contemplating demonstrating on a daily basis. Also read: Police fire teargas as NASA supporters, Nairobi business community clash