Former Taita Taveta governor John Mruttu has confirmed that he will be joining Jubilee after he unsuccessfully defended his seat on independent ticket.  The former ODM governor has accused NASA leader Raila Odinga of sidelining him even after he massively campaigned for him in the county. "The presidential campaign team has approached me concerning the issue and am in talks with the ruling party to join their team. I have widely consulted my followers and they have positively welcomed the move," Mruttu told journalist at Mwatate on Saturday. Mruttu lost to former Wundanyi MP Thomas Mwadeghu in ODM party primaries before vying for gubernatorial seat as an independent. He however lost to former veteran radio presenter Granton Samboja in the August 8 polls. [VIDEO] Samboja beats Mruttu to win Taita Taveta governor seat While presiding over relief food distribution exercise in Maungu,Taveta MP Naomi Shabaan also confirmed Mruttu’s move. "Our former governor has finally gotten enough of coldness in the opposition and he has accepted to join our team."  The Jubilee legislator was addressing a crowd that had gathered to receive relief food at Marasi Primary School in Maungu on Saturday. Former Bura ward MCA Flumence Mshila (ODM) and former immigration PS Emmanuel Kisombe who unsuccessfully vied for Taita Taveta gubernatorial seat have also announced their move to Jubilee. The duo have expressed their displeasure with the NASA coalition’s campaign strategy saying it lacks inclusivity.  "When a player is severally left on the bench, he has to look for an alternative," Mshilla told the Star on phone.  "NASA has sidelined me since I lost my seat and my effort is not appreciated at all," he added. Both Mruttu and Kisombe’s move is expected to be officially unveiled by president Uhuru Kenyatta when he tours the county on Tuesday. Addressing journalists in Voi on Saturday, Kisombe said he was interested in working with the Jubilee government to push for implementation of major projects in the region. "It is until we closely work with the government that our people shall benefit prom multi million projects that are lined up to be implanted in the Coast region," he said.  President Uhuru Kenyatta and deputy president William Rutto are expected to lead the Jubilee campaign team in Taita Taveta on Tuesday as they scrambled for the 155,716 in the NASA dominated county ahead of the October 26 fresh polls.